Task P1
SIT112 - Assessment Guideline
This task aims to introduce you to the assessment model of SIT112. Please read and sign the document and
submit it as instructed at the end of this document.

Assessment Tasks
To help students tailor this unit to achieve the outcomes they are after, SIT112 uses a teaching approach called
Constructive Alignment, where knowledge is constructed in the mind of the students by actively performing
the required tasks. In this unit, Constructive Alignment is supported by a software tool called OnTrack, which
facilitates formative learning via a task-oriented portfolio assessment. OnTrack organizes learning activities
across tasks structured around grade outcomes: Pass, Credit, Distinction, and High Distinction. The graded
tasks, therefore, fall into the categories listed in Table 1.
Table 1. Task types and their definitions.
Task Type
Pass

Definition
• To achieve the minimum acceptable standard for this unit. To complete the Pass tasks,
students should be able to comprehend and execute the solutions implemented in Python and
write code for basic problems with guidance.

e.g., Task P1

• Students will apply what they have learnt in the pass tasks with less guidance. To complete the
Credit tasks, the students should be able to comprehend and execute the solutions implemented
in Python and write code for basic problems with limited guidance.

Credit
e.g., Task C1
Distinction

• Students will apply their advanced knowledge to design and build solutions to a real-world
scenario. To complete the Distinction tasks, students should be able to comprehend and execute
the solutions implemented in Python and write code for moderately complex problems,
independently.

e.g., Task D1

High Distinction
e.g., Task HD1

• Students will extend their understanding to demonstrate greater technical ability in developing
more complex solutions to a real-world scenario. To complete the High Distinction tasks,
Students should be able to comprehend and execute the solutions implemented in Python and
write code for complex problems, independently.

Assessment Process
1. Set a Target Grade
The students need to select the grade they are aiming to achieve – this decision may be based on prior
experience and skills in the domain (e.g., programming skills), attitude towards the topic, time commitment,
or the career objective. This selection allows the students to scaffold their own learning. For the best outcome,
it is recommended that the students seriously and honestly consider their capabilities and adjust their target
grades accordingly. The target grades and their requirements are listed in Table 2.
Table 2. Target grades and their requirements.
Target
Grade

Minimum Requirements

Pass

• All the Pass tasks are completed.
• Failure to complete any of the Pass tasks will result in a Fail grade.

Credit

• Minimum requirements for a Pass grade are met AND all Credit tasks are completed.

Distinction

• Minimum requirements for a Credit grade are met AND the Distention task are completed.
• In addition, the student must create a video recording, presenting their completed task; they may be
required to answer questions or make changes to their code.

High
Distinction

• Minimum requirement for a Distinction grade are met AND all High Distention tasks are completed.
• Interviews are required. The students might be asked questions about their submissions, and they
may be required to complete small tasks during the interviews.

1

2. Complete and submit the tasks based on your target grade
Knowledge and skills in this unit continuously build on those learnt the weeks before. Therefore, if you fall
behind it becomes difficult to understand the subsequent contents; try to submit your tasks by 11 am of the
due dates. If you miss a due date, you can still submit your task by the end of Week 12 (The Deadline).
However, only submissions by 11 am of the due date will receive feedback (via OnTrack). Before completing
any task, please read the instructions in the task description and task completion form; submit via OnTrack:
https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au/.
Table 3. Submission items required for different tasks.
Task

Submission Items

Pass Tasks P1-P8

•
•

P1: Sign and submit the assessment guideline via OnTrack.
P2-P8: Submit the task completion report (PDF file) via OnTrack.

Credit Tasks C1-C2

•
•

Submit the task completion report (PDF file) via OnTrack.
Submit the Jupyter Notebook (ipynb file) via OnTrack.

Distinction Task D1

•

Submit the task completion report (PDF file) via OnTrack; a link to the
video recording must be included in the task completion report.
Submit the Jupyter Notebook (ipynb file) via OnTrack.

•
High Distinction Task HD1

•
•

Submit the task completion report (PDF file) via OnTrack; a link to the
video recording must be included in the task completion report.
Submit the Jupyter Notebook (ipynb file) via OnTrack.

3. Get your submission assessed
All submissions will get assessed but only those submitted by 11 am of the due dates will receive feedback via
OnTrack. Feedback will be provided as Complete, Discuss, Demonstrate, Fix and Resubmit, and Fail. You can
still request feedback on your late submissions during the workshops. Please note the difference between the
task due dates and the deadline; the deadline for all tasks is the end of Week 12. You must submit your final
portfolio including all your completed tasks by the deadline.
Table 4. Different types of feedback for the SIT112 tasks.
Feedback
Complete

Meaning
The submission has met the essential
requirements of the task and is ready for
inclusion in the portfolio.

Required Action

Discuss

The tutor would like to discuss the
submission with the student.

• Respond to the tutor’s questions via OnTrack.

Demonstrate

The tutor would like the student to
demonstrate the submission.

• Meet with the tutor (online/on-campus)
demonstrate your submission.

Fix and
Resubmit

The submission needs to be improved or
fixed.

• Fix your submission and resubmit.

Fail

The submission has failed to meet the
essential requirements of the task.

• No further action is required.

• No further action is required.

to

• Maximum of 2 resubmissions are allowed per task, but
only the first resubmission will receive further
feedback – only if it is received within 7 days of the
initial feedback. The 2nd resubmission can be made
anytime by the end of Week 12 (the Deadline) with no
feedback.

2

Important notes:
•

SIT112 has zero tolerance for plagiarism, plagiarized submissions will be flagged as Fail and will be
reported to the academic integrity committee for further investigation.

•

You are not allowed to make more than 3 submissions per task (original submission plus a maximum
of 2 resubmissions). If you mistakenly exceeded this limit, please contact your tutor; they will help
you fix the issue.

•

Workshops are the primary venue for you to get help on the tasks. The tutors will walk you through
the tasks and help you complete them, depending on the level of support those tasks need. Solutions
to the Pass tasks will be discussed in the workshops. Also, assistance/guidance will be provided
towards completion of the Credit tasks. Although the Distinction and High Distinction tasks are to be
completed independently, the tutors can still give you hints and tell you if you are on the right track.

•

Please avoid emailing code or the screenshots of your code to the teaching team outside workshop
hours; instead, demonstrate your solutions (code) to the tutors during the workshops. The tutors can
help you fix your code in a one-to-one discussion. They can also show you how to use external
resources (e.g., ChatGPT) to fix your code while improving your programming/problem solving skills.

•

In this unit, we encourage you to use ChatGPT when appropriate. The tutors will help you navigate
your way through this new world of AI in education to have an enjoyable learning experience!

Submission of this task
Having read the above discussion, this task requires you to complete the following form and submit it to
OnTrack. Once submitted, your tutor will initiate an Intelligent Discussion with you which you will need to
provide a response. This discussion will only be asking you to introduce yourself to the tutor. If this task is not
completed, we will not be accepting any future task submissions.
Student ID:
Name:
¨ Tick to indicate you have read this task sheet, asked your tutor
anything you need clarified, and that you understand what you
need to do to complete this unit.
Signed:
Date:

3

