Your rights and responsibilities as a student in this Unit
As a Deakin University student, you have rights in relation to your study in this unit, for example:

to be respected, intellectually challenged, and valued as an individual
to be taught by competent, engaging, and accessible teachers who provide timely and thoughtful feedback to you on your work
to have reasonable adjustments made to assist you to meet your course requirements if you have a disability or a health condition
to have access to free and fair processes to question University decisions where you believe they are wrong.
Importantly, you also have responsibilities as a member of the University community, for example:

to complete all assessment tasks with integrity
to seek assistance early where problems arise
to accept and act on advice and feedback on your academic performance
to participate constructively in learning in class, at placements and practicums, on study tours and online
to treat staff and other students with respect and courtesy.
Deakin is committed to maintaining a strong culture of safety, mutual respect, and inclusion both on and off campus. The University takes a proactive approach to prevent discrimination, harassment, and sexual harm. Your responsibilities are summarised in the University's Student Code of Conduct. Read the Code carefully, so that you have a clear understanding of your obligations to others in the Deakin community. If you breach Deakin’s standards of behaviour, the University can investigate this misconduct and act in accordance with the Student Misconduct procedure.

For more information and a summary of key policies for students, go to the Rights and responsibilities webpage.

1.        Assessment matters
Academic integrity – a commitment to honesty, trust, fairness, respect, and responsibility in academic settings – is an essential component of university-level study. All Deakin staff and students are expected to act with academic integrity. This means that you must:

submit your own original work, sit your own tests, and do your own examinations, and attend your own placements, work integrated learning and other off-campus learning activities and experiences
acknowledge your sources for individual and group assessments when you use other people’s ideas, designs, research findings, words or works, including use of artificial intelligence
seek the written permission of the Unit Chair before re-using any work you have submitted before
comply with all instructions for all assessment tasks
provide accurate and truthful documentation to the University
encourage other students to act with academic integrity and take reasonable steps to prevent other students from copying your own work
refrain from uploading your own assessment work to a sharing website or providing copies of your assessments to other students.
All assessments must be properly referenced in the style required in the unit. If you are not sure which style to use, ask your Unit Chair before you finish your assessment. See the Deakin Guide to Referencing to learn more about referencing styles and how to avoid doing the wrong thing. If you have any questions, ask the teaching staff in the unit. Help is also available at no cost from various Deakin services. See Support and services, below.

If you do not complete your assessment tasks with integrity, the consequences can be extremely severe. If a Unit Chair is concerned about the academic integrity of an assessment task you have submitted, they may ask to meet with you to clarify your understanding of the material. Deakin University’s academic integrity procedures and outcomes are explained on the Student integrity webpage. For information on acting with integrity, read the student guides on Academic Integrity and Research Integrity.

Work or parts of work that you have submitted in the past for assessment cannot be re-submitted for assessment in another unit without your Unit Chair’s written permission. This includes work submitted for assessment in any unit at Deakin or at another academic institution. If you wish to reuse or extend parts of previously submitted work, then you should discuss this with the Unit Chair before the submission date. Depending on the nature of the task, the Unit Chair may permit or decline the request.

One of Deakin’s graduate learning outcomes is self-management: working and learning independently and taking responsibility for personal actions. You are expected to prioritise your studies and start assessment tasks early. If something unexpected arises, you might be allowed to undertake or complete an assessment task at another time through the extension or the special consideration process, but students are expected to complete their work by the due dates.

Assessment submission: Deakin has a universal assessment submission time of 8 pm (AEDT/AEST). A late penalty will apply to assessment submitted after 11.59 pm on the due date. 

It is your responsibility to ensure that the unit team has the correct version of your assessment for marking. The unit team will assess the most recent document you submit to the Dropbox by the due date. 

Completion of practicums/ placements: you should contact your Unit Chair regarding any circumstances that prevent you from completing a practicum or placement study requirement. 

Extensions: If unexpected circumstances prevent you from undertaking or completing an assessment task, please contact your Unit Chair by submitting an application for an assessment extension in your unit site. You should submit your assessment extension application as soon as you become aware of the problem, and no later than the assessment due date. Extension requests are submitted within your unit site in the 'Assessment' tab.

It is important to note that making a request for an extension does not guarantee that this request will be granted. Assessment extensions can be granted up to 7 calendar days. Students requiring a longer extension or who cannot request an extension by the due date should apply for special consideration.

You are required to provide a valid reason for the extension and the length of time you are seeking for the extension. In most cases, you will be required to supply supporting documentation (e.g., medical certificate, death certificate, statutory declaration). When circumstances prevent you from applying, the application may be made on your behalf by the relevant University support service you are liaising with (e.g. Safer Community, Counselling or Disability Resource Centre).

Please note: Students with an DRC Access Plan and/or using NIKERI Institute Student Support services, additional reasonable adjustments to extensions between seven and up to fourteen days may be granted by the Unit Chair.

To find out more about assessment extensions and submission, visit the Assessment website.

Penalties for late submission: The following penalties will apply if you submit an assessment task after the due date without an approved extension: 5% will be deducted from the available marks for each day up to seven calendar days. Work submitted more than seven calendar days after the due date will not be marked; you will receive 0% for the task. It is important that you check any assessment instructions carefully to see if late submissions are impracticable to assess and will not be marked.

Special consideration: Special consideration is intended to assist you in dealing with unexpected, short-term setbacks.
Where circumstances outside your control:

prevent you from attempting or completing an assessment task or examination at the scheduled time, or
significantly affect your performance,
you may apply for special consideration. If granted, special consideration will give you an opportunity either to undertake an assessment task at another time, or to take additional time to complete the assessment task. Applications for special consideration should normally be made within three University working days after the due date of the assessment task or the date of the end-of-unit assessment or examination. For more information, see special consideration.

The University also has several services to support students who are dealing with longer term difficulties.

2.        Marks, results and academic progress
Your marks and results: If you have any questions or concerns about your assessment or marks during the teaching period, speak to your Unit Chair in the first instance. You can ask for additional feedback to help clarify the marking, or request in writing that the work be remarked if you can demonstrate that it was not marked in accordance with the published marking criteria.

All marks are provisional until the relevant Faculty Committee approves your final unit result after the end of the study period. In some circumstances, the Committee will adjust the overall marks a Unit Chair has recommended for each student before the official publication of results.

After the release of your results in the unit, if you have evidence that your work was not marked in accordance with the marking criteria or that there was a misapplication of relevant University policies or the Assessment (Higher Education Courses) Procedure, you may apply for a review of your overall unit result, including assessment in any part of the unit, through the relevant Faculty Committee.

Applications must be submitted to the faculty that owns the unit within five University working days of the release of your result in the unit. For more information on the process and how to apply visit the Review of results website.

Students may also request feedback from the Unit Chair on their performance in an end-of-unit assessment or examination within ten University working days from receiving their mark. Note that your focus at this stage should be on how you can do better in future; you cannot use this discussion to request a review of your result.

Academic progress: Students are expected to maintain satisfactory academic progress. You will be invited to seek support if you:

fail an early summative assessment task in a compulsory unit or unit designated by the course director
if you fail a unit, but less than 50% of your enrolled credit points, in the most recent study period
At the end of each study period, your faculty will review your progress. If your performance is below the expected standard (for example you have failed more units than you passed, you have failed a compulsory practicum or placement or you are unlikely to complete your course within the maximum time allowed), the University will intervene. Initially, you will be contacted and provided with support to improve your performance. If your performance still does not improve, you may have conditions placed on your enrolment, such as restricting the number of units you can study in a study period or requiring you to study and pass specific units. Alternatively, you may be asked to leave the University until you can demonstrate that you are more likely to succeed with your studies.

In addition to the above listed implications, if you do not maintain good academic progress, you may also be impacted by the Low Completion Rate and Government Assistance process. Please see below.

Where a single failed unit is preventing you from completing your course, you may also be eligible for a pass conceded or supplementary assessment if you meet certain criteria. Applications must be submitted within five University working days of the release of results. For more information and to apply, visit the Final unit to complete website.

3.        Administrative matters
DeakinSync: DeakinSync is your student portal where you’ll find your unit and course sites, email and a range of services and information. It also links you to StudentConnect, where you can manage your enrolment and timetable, update your details, pay your fees, and see your student record and results. To stay connected and avoid missing important information, make sure you keep your personal details up to date in StudentConnect and check your Deakin email at least twice a week. You can forward your Deakin email to an external, non-Deakin email address if you wish. For instructions, see ‘How to forward your email’.

University Handbook: The University Handbook provides general information about studying at Deakin, key dates, a search facility for courses and units, and your course completion rules.

Changing your enrolment – financial and academic implications: If you intermit or discontinue your course or withdraw from a unit, you must check the academic outcome including the withdrawal dates and refund amounts and make sure you action the change before the census date where possible. If you make a change after the census date you will be liable for the full amount of your fees and you will incur an academic penalty.

Domestic students – Withdrawal dates and refund amounts
International students in their first study period – Withdrawal dates and refund amounts
International current students – Withdrawal dates and refund amounts
Before intermitting or discontinuing your course or withdrawing from a unit, you should contact a Student Adviser to discuss your options.

Intermitting your course: If you wish to take a break from your studies and keep your place in the course, you must apply for intermission. Intermission is normally granted for a maximum of 12 months for the duration of a course. If you do not re-enrol in any units in Trimester/Semester 1 or 2 and you do not apply to intermit, your enrolment will lapse, and you will need to apply for re-admission if you wish to return to study.
You can apply to intermit through StudentConnect.

Discontinuing your course: Discontinuing your course means that you are withdrawing all units and your course enrolment completely. If you wish to return to study in your course, you will need to apply for re-admission.
You can apply to discontinue through StudentConnect.

Withdrawing from a unit: You can withdraw from your unit if your circumstances have changed through StudentConnect.

All teaching-related processes at Deakin are governed by policies and procedures approved by the Academic Board. These can be found in the Deakin Policy Library.

4.        Support and services
Deakin has a range of study support services to help you get the most out of your learning.

Student help hub: Student help hub is your first stop for all general enquiries. You can ask a question in the help hub, make an appointment or submit an enquiry for help with unit and course enrolment advice, fees, and referral to other services within Deakin.
Orientation resources: Access the New Students website and the New International Student Guide . All enrolled students will have access to UniStart (undergraduate students) or Preparing to Succeed (postgraduate students) to assist you to make a positive start to your studies at Deakin. These resources are located in DeakinSync.
Study support team: The study support team offer academic skills resources, individual consultations with Language and Learning Advisers, Writing Mentors and Maths Mentors and Studiosity - the 24/7 online tutoring and writing feedback service.
Peer support: Deakin has a number of free peer support programs to assist you with your studies. Explore the range of Peer mentoring programs available to you.
Deakin library: The Deakin Library has many resources and services for you and is available to help 24/7 via Library Chat. Visit the library to search our extensive catalogue, keep track of your loans and holds, book a study space, and check PC availability. Your campus library also provides a safe, comfortable place to study. You can find current library hours, news and updates on the library website.
Prescribed texts and reading lists: For each unit you are studying you may have a prescribed textbook and a reading list. You can find your unit readings by typing your unit code into the search box on the library website. This information is also located in the Unit Guide in your unit site.
IT Help and software: The IT service desk can assist with CloudDeakin and IT support and information. The Software library is a resource for students providing access to software downloads (including Endnote bibliographic software) that can be installed on home computers.
Online harm: if you have experienced or seen any offensive, discriminatory, harassing, bullying or other inappropriate behaviours online, Deakin can support you. Contact Safer Community or the Student Conduct Team. The eSafety Commissioner also supports those affected serious online abuse or illegal and restricted online content. 
Disability Resource Centre: The Disability Resource Centre (DRC) promotes inclusion and access and provides information and services for students with a disability, health or mental health condition that affects their study or participation in university life.
Health, safety, and wellbeing: Deakin offers a range of services to help you stay healthy and safe – physically, mentally, and spiritually. Explore health and wellbeing services.
Safer Community: Safer Community is a free, confidential support service for staff and students who experience concerning, threatening, inappropriate or uncomfortable behaviour. This includes sexual harm and family violence. Safer Community is available Monday to Friday, 9am-4pm and can be contacted on 9244 3734 or via email at safercommunity@deakin.edu.au.
Equity and inclusion: Deakin provides initiatives and services that nurture a diverse, inclusive, and respectful university community. All students will cover core content regarding Respect at Deakin through the compulsory Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin, and additional content is available via the Respect, belong, thrive at Deakin module (all students), or Respect at Deakin – HDR module (HDR students).
Student advocacy and support: The Student Advocacy & Support Service at the Deakin University Student Association (DUSA) offers free, confidential assistance and advice to all Deakin students. Visit DUSA Advocacy for more information.

More information about a range of services and support is available at deakin.edu.au/students.

5.        Student feedback and complaints
We are committed to providing you with a quality educational experience. You can provide us with feedback on any aspect of your experience as a Deakin student through the Student Central enquiry form.

If you have concerns about any aspect of this unit, please discuss them with your Unit Chair in the first instance. If you are uncomfortable doing this, or you wish to lodge a complaint, you will find information about the University’s complaint resolution process on the student complaints webpage.
