Okay, so here's an example. We have, um, we have used... this time we use expanding, so instead of rolling, we use expanding. Again, we have data frame that we have, uh, created from, you know, this people file, and then we apply expanding function to it. So acres burned.expanding.sum. It's going to sum up the values, uh, for each d- for each data point, it's going to sum up the values up to that point. Uh, so you can see what's happening here by looking at the data. You can see that, um, um, twelve eighty point seven six is added to one two two point five zero, um, and this forms the new value one four zero three point two six. So this is the summation of... Let me get a pen. So this value here is the summation of these two values. You can see they are highlighted in green. And then this value here is summation of these four values. So again, from the beginning. So it adds up, in other words, summation of this and this. Right? So we sum up the values from the beginning up to that point to find the new value. So this value is the summation of all the previous points and the current point, and the, and the, and the value from the current point, which is, uh, listed here. And this value is the summation of this value and all the points before that, which is this one, or all the values from the points before that, which is this one, and then the value is this. So how do we calculate this value here? We just add up all these numbers, this one, this one, this one and this one, and it gives us the new value. Right? So, uh, it's a cumulative sum of the previous values, uh, that, uh, is captured, this new, new, new column, running totals. And this column has been created here. Acres burned running totals equals acres burned at expanding. So this new sum will be, will be stored in this newly created column, uh, running totals. All right? So this is an example of s-expanding and, uh, we, we call this, uh, running totals, uh, which is a special type of expanding. But instead of sum, we might have applied, for example, average, mean, mean function, right? So it depends, uh, or, or a custom function, right? We could have applied a custom function. So we can actually apply functions to expanding. Um. All right. How to plot running totals. So plotting running totals, uh, is, uh, is straightforward. We can just-- in this example, you can see the structure of the data. This, the data is stored like this. We have running totals that we just calculated, and running totals are calculated based on acres burned, obviously. Um, so if you want to plot this, obviously we, we want the discovery date still in the, in the plot. Uh, we're assuming that we need to, to show the dates on the, on the plot. This is, this, this is, uh, we, we are visualizing time series data, so time or dates in this case need to be there in the, in the plot. So we need discovery dates, and we also need acres burned and running totals and the corresponding values. So one easy way that we can do that is that we can melt the data frame. So we can melt this data frame into the, into the, into this one by... We have seen examples of this in the previous lecture. So pandas.melt and then pass the data frame that is, um, in this case acres burned, this data frame. And we specify the id vars, the identifiers. The identifier in this case is, uh, discovery date. So this discovery date will be as used as the identifier. And then we also specify the value vars. These are the two value vars, uh, acres burned and acres total, and, and sorry, running total. Running total. So running total, acres burned. These are the, uh, the, the value vars. And, uh, we, we, we use this, uh, value type for the name of the new variable that will be created. So we have, uh, we have value type here. So value type will take either of these two values, acres burned or running total. Right? So in this case, you can see the acres burned here, acres burned, acres burned, acres burned. And you can have some, uh, running totals, running totals, acres burned. So these are the values that value type can take. So value type is either acres burned or running totals. And the values that correspond to those, um, um, th-those values, that means th-those value types, uh, are of course, um, uh, uh, the numbers that have, that have been extracted from this column. So, um, so this is melting. If you're not sure how this works, please refer to the previous lecture and I have, uh, the, um, I have explained it in the, in the recording. Um, so we convert this data frame to this data frame. In other words, we melt the data frame into this format, which makes, makes it easier to visualize. Uh, and here's the visualization part. We also showed this in the previous lecture. We use the cat plot to A plot categorical data. This is used for Seaborn. And, uh, the kind is a kind of the plot that we're using here is a bar plot and, uh, d- and what do you call it? Uh, the x-axis is going to show the discovery date, right? Uh, so the discovery, remember we used it as the identifier to melt the data frame, and we still have it here in the resulting data frame, and the acres melted. So we use discovery date, uh, as the, uh, on our x-axis. And then we have values, which are the values that correspond to either acres burned or running totals, the values that correspond to the value types. Remember, value type can be either acres burned or running total and of course, each of these have their own values. And you can see that we also use, um, uh-- Yeah, so, so we specify this and then, um, the bar plot, the resulting bar plot is showing, um, is distinguishing between different, different value types by different colors. So we have two bars. Uh, the orange bar corresponds to running total, and the blue bar corresponds to acres burned. So you can see that the acres burned are, um, they, they have different values for different discovery dates. So here we have a value, and here we have a smaller value, and we have a larger value. So there, there are different values here. But you can see that the running total is always increasing, okay? Because it's a cumulative value. It's the summation of... So in other words, this, um, for example, let's say this one is calculated ba- by summing up this blue bar here, this one here, and this one here. Right? So this one's the summation of all these three. Okay? Uh, obviously for the first one, they're the same. And the second one, so this one, let me choose a different color. This one is calculated by summing up this value with this small value here. So you can see this bar is slightly higher than this one, okay? And so on and so forth. So you can see overall, overall, the value of running total is increasing. But obviously, the values a- acres burned can in- increase and decrease, increase, increase, decrease, stay around the same, decrease, decrease, increase. But the o-- the summation, the cumulative sum of acres burned is increasing over time. Okay. All right. So this was the example that show how we can plot our running totals. Remember, running totals is a special type of expanding, and we also explain what is the difference between expanding and rolling. Where in, in expanding, we, uh, accumulate, uh, the, the aggregation over, over the time period. Uh, start, start from, uh, we start from the beginning of the, uh, the per-- the, the beginning of the time or the, the range up to the current point, and, uh, we calculate the value for, uh, for, for the whole, for the whole interval, not for a fixing and not, not for a fixed size interval. Uh, whereas for rolling, we would, uh, we would slide the fixed time, fixed size, uh, interval, uh, along the x-axis and calculate the, uh, calculate the, uh, for example, the sum or the mean or whatever we are calculating for that time interval. So you can go back and, uh, and see the differences and try to do it yourself. We have provided examples. So you can go and, um, and, uh, what do you call it? Uh, open the Jupyter notebook file and execute the examples and see what happens. Uh, there's one more video that, uh, we have here that shows, um, the, uh, that, that summarizes, uh, some of the things that we discussed, especially about, uh, expanding and, uh, rolling windows. It also talks about shifting, uh, which we didn't cover in this lecture, but you can, you can understand the, the, the, um, topic by watching this video. So it's a good summary of what we discussed. So again, I recommend watching and, uh, there are some, uh, good examples there. All right, so this will, uh, wrap up our today's lecture. I'm going to, uh, stop at this point and, uh, and see you next time.