00:00
Hi, everyone. So the purpose of this recording is to help you get started with Task P2 and Task C1. Task P2 is a past task, and Task C1 is a credit task. But before I start talking about these two tasks, in order to start working on them, or to start working on them, you need to have understood the topics that we've covered so far in the lectures, lecture week one, lecture week two, and you need to have practiced the examples that we have provided to you. So if you have not, please spend some more time on them and make sure that you have understood what we have covered so far.

00:48
So what is task P2? So task P2 is a past task. And I'm gonna take it, I'm gonna walk you through what's required for the tasks, but for the task, but these are the things you need to do in relation to task P2. First, you need to download the zip file that's been provided to you on track and extract it on your disk. Open the IPYMD file. That's your DrupYNB file. That's your Jupyter Notebook file. So in the case of task P2, the file is named P2.IPYNB. So you need to open this file in your browser, in your JupyterLab environment or Jupyter Notebook, whichever you prefer to use. We're using JupyterLab as or Jupyter Notebook, whichever you prefer to use, we're using JupyterLab as the standard tool for this unit. And once you opened this file, p2.ipynb, then the second step is, the third step is, the third step is, read the instructions in the IPYNB file carefully.

02:10
So with the description, what is the task about? The task is about analyzing the avocado data. Also here's some description about what the data set is about, so you know what you're looking at. And, of course, there's a link here that you can access the data set that is available online and read its description there as well. And download the data, but you don't have to download the data from there. We have already provided it to you. So here is your data set. I will cut it to you. So here's your dataset. I will cut it at CSV, but here's your dataset. You will be working on this dataset. Okay. So you can just an overview of it here. Right, so you read this description of the dataset, and then there are some instructions here that tell you what to do. So complete this task without looking at the solution notebook. So for the past task, we have also given you a dissolution. For this past task, P2, we have given you the solutions.

03:22
If you have read the assessment guideline carefully, which we expect everyone to have done that because you have read it and signed it and submitted it as your first task, we have explained there that we'll provide that the past tasks are guided tasks. So for these tasks, we provide you with the solution files. What we expect you to do is to understand the solution, to try to work out the solution yourself, and then understand the solution, and then reflect on your understanding in a task completion report that you need to submit. So we'll talk about that in a minute. So what you're going to do is that you're going to open this p2.ipynb file and read the instruction, which tells you complete this task without looking at the solution notebook. You can then look at the solution notebook, and by solution notebook, we mean this file, P2 solution, which provides all the solutions for task P2.

04:36
And it asks you to complete and submit the task completion report from a report form in pdf format using on track you can do this by the end of week 12 which is the only deadline that we have for all the tasks in this unit um but um feedback will only be provided on-track for submissions that have been received by 11 a.m. of the due date, which is 27th of March for this task. So if you want feedback on your task on-track, make sure to submit before the due date. If you're almost, you're almost completed the task, but you're not sure, you can still try submitting. And if more work is needed, your teachers will ask you to resubmit. So you still get received feedback and the teacher will ask you to resubmit. And then you'll get another chance to resubmit. So you can have up to two submissions and one original submission. So you can have three submissions in total. Not sure, go back to the assessment guideline and refresh your mind on how we allow the submissions.

06:01
So, if for any reason you couldn't submit by the due date, don't worry. You can still go to your tutors in the workshops and talk to them and get well-known feedback from them. They'll be able to guide you, you know, how far you are from completion. And you can be confident to submit when you feel you've almost completed, even you know you have almost completed the task. So there'll be plenty of feedback, don't worry about it. Another point, number four, do not include the solution in your submission, because we have given you the solution. We don't need that. So you will not be providing any code, any Jupyter notebook in your submission for task P2. All right. We have also explained this in the assessment guideline that for the past tasks, you won't be submitting any code. And please do not include any code in your task completion report either. If you're asked to submit a task completion report, you should not include any code in that report either. Except brief references to the name of the functions or the name of the things that you've used, that's fine, but you're not supposed to copy any code there.

07:41
What else? So the workshops are the provider venue for you to get help. We want you to actively participate in the workshops, ask questions there, show your code to your tutors, and a lot of learning happens there when you have that interaction with your tutors. So try to utilize that. You can also attend the help hop sessions if you have Python specific questions or some minor assistance regarding your data science tasks you can also ask during those help hop sessions. But they are mainly to help you with your Python questions. What else? Yeah, do not, please do not send a screenshot of your code. It's a very bad practice for learning and also a very bad practice for helping you to learn. So it's not good for your tutors, not good for you. Show your code and your tutors will help you to fix your code yourself and will tell you where you've got things wrong, will show you how to find the error in your code.

08:56
You can use, well, in fact, what ChatGPT can do for you is far more than, you know, sending an email to a tutor can do for you is far more than sending an email to a teacher can do for you. So try to learn what the tools and the methods that can speed up your learning and always help you to catch up with your learning objectives. And the sooner you do that, the more confident you will be to complete the rest of the tasks. What else? Consider using online resources such as ChatGPT. I already mentioned that. So, I mean, so far you know that I'm kind of advertising using ChatGPT in the units, and I keep reminding you of that. So if you're annoyed, sorry, I really want you to get started using that. And we are going to show you examples of how we can use that. So at some point, I wish you good luck for the task. So good luck.

10:06
And that was section A of the Jupyter notebook file, which was the instructions. So read that carefully. And then start working on the task, on the items of the task. So you have some operations that you need to complete, or you need to write code that performs certain operations, or answer some questions. So for each of these operations or questions, you need to provide code, provide Python code. As I mentioned, we have already given you the code. So if you can't write it yourself for this past task, no worries at all. You can look at the solution, learn how the solution file has done it and try to do it yourself. So I type here, import poundOS as PD. And then maybe I, the instruction tells me here, read the CSA file, blah, blah, and store it in a variable called data. So data equals PD dot, you forget the name of the function. If you're not sure, go back. Okay, so read underline csv. Great. Read underline csv. Okay, what else do I need to provide? I need to provide the name of the file, right? So, I need to provide avocados.csv.

11:50
So we're assuming that avocados.csv, which is your dataset is in the current folder. So just provide the name of the file and it's going to find the file. So you can test if your code is correct by running this line, no error, all good. And you can try running this one here, all good. And you can even test if you have your data, data.head, get the first five rows, or you can change that by default, gives you the first five rows, or you can change that by default, gives you the first five rows, but you can change that to anything you want. And okay, so I know I have read the data, I can move forward. So just, you can go back and forth with your solution file and your file and do it. But first try to do things yourself and then go back to the solution file when you're stuck and then try to do it yourself. So you can go back and forth. And if there's anything you're not sure about, go to your tutors, ask them. What else? So you can see the same instructions on the solution file. It's just the same template. So you can read this again. The only difference is that the solution file has the solutions. So you can go back and first and see the solutions.

13:21
What else about P2? All right, so let's say you work on the items of the task, you completed them, and now you have understood what each line of code does. Now it's time for you to go and complete your task completion report. And this is what you need to submit for every task that you complete in this unit, including the past tasks. But the only difference is that for the past tasks, and this is the only thing you submit, you don't need to submit any code. Another thing is that not all parts of this form are required for all tasks. So some of the parts are only required for the distinction and high distinction tasks. Some of the parts are required only for credit tasks and distinction and high distinction tasks. So you need to pay attention to the instructions throughout the form and just only complete the parts that are relevant to your task. So this is a three-page report. draw the form and just only complete the parts that are relevant to your task. So this is a three page report. It's a short three page form. It's a short form and you can easily complete this in a couple of hours. Once you have done your work, this is easy to complete.

14:44
So remember, this is not an essay. We don't expect you to spend all the amount of time and, you know, keep writing into this form. You need to provide short, brief answers, and that's it. Okay? We have some questions. The questions are straightforward. They are not complicated questions. They are just asking you and encouraging you to think about what you have done and reflect on that and write it down. Okay. So we're not going to criticize you if you have done something wrong. When you try to develop a solution that's fine, that's part of your learning process, you can talk about that. You have different sections. For example, he has asked you to briefly describe it. The data science task that you worked on, you can explain that. What kind of data you work with. You can say what kind of data you used. And what was the objective of the task? You can explain here. And what was the objective of the task? You can explain here. And then you can, there are more technical questions later on that ask you to explain what technical skills did you use during the task? List any challenges or obstacles you faced while working on the task and how you overcome them.

16:07
So here you can say, you know, if you did something wrong and something that you were not sure, and then you found out how to fix it, you can mention it here. And, of course, every person will have their own experience while working on the tasks. So your reports will be different. Of course, there's always some similarities, but these are, what do you call it? This will reflect your unique experience as a person who's worked on the task. So this form, this is a completed form that I have completed based on a sample task. Sorry, because I have a sample task for myself, and then I have completed it based on a sample task, sorry, because I have a sample task for myself and then I have completed it accordingly. So this is just to show you how you should complete this form, okay? So you're not going to exactly use what I have written here. You're going to write your own words for your particular task. This is for a hypothetical task, not quite hard to come because there was an actual task completed, but you don't see that task. You just see how this report has been completed just to give you an idea about how much information you need to put there, how much information you need to put there, how much time you need to spend on it, and what kind of things you should write into the report.

17:36
So if you're not sure about anything, clarify with your tutors. But if you read this task completion form, it will give you the idea about what needs to go there. Okay? The form is straightforward, we need to, well, let's start with two important notes. So note one, please do not include Python code in this report. It would be acceptable though, to make brief references to function names or different parts of the tasks notebook when needed. So you can say, for example, you know, you can make references to different parts of your code, mention the name of certain functions or certain objects that you have used, but you should not copy and paste any code from your solution. We do not want to know your, we do not want to see your code here. All we want is your reflection on the process of completing the task. So, task name, ask task, P0. This is just a hypothetical task. So this is, as I said, completed, it's been completed for a hypothetical task. Task task P0 or task P0, you can just write the name of your task. It would be enough if you just write, for example, P2 here, that's fine. Then you can additional information, P2, P3, C1, whatever the name of the task is. And then provide your name, your DEC and email, and the description of the task.

19:17
I went through this quickly. So you have items and you have response to items. So you need to respond to any of these items here. And then the technical skills, need to respond to the question related to the technical skills, two questions here. In section three, section four, data cleaning and preparation. So this only applies to the tasks that include data preparation and cleaning. If you don't have data preparation and cleaning, there's no need to answer any of the questions here. So you can just write not applicable, NA, and just leave it as it is. But do not leave any of these fields empty. Make sure you provide answer. You know, I've mentioned this at some point. Yes, please do not leave any response field empty. If not applicable, enter NA. So let's say this one doesn't apply to me. So instead of writing all these here, I would just write NA, stand for not applicable. And that's it. And maybe same here, not applicable, that's it. So please make sure you remove all my answers before you provide your answer. This is just a template and make it some sample answers just to show you how to complete the poll. Okay, so make sure you remove my answers, otherwise your report won't make sense.

20:52
And, the session find five data analysis enter and a when not applicable. Okay, same thing. So if you have data analysis, then just answer this question. How did you analyze the data? Did you use any visualization technique to better understand the data? In this case, I said, yes, we use a scatterplot to visualize the relationship between rainfall and mosquito bites. So that's it. You don't need to, as I said, write a story here. This is not an essay. This is a brief reflection of what you have done. Keep your answers as short as possible. We do not encourage you to keep writing except absolute essential things. And what insights did you gain from this analysis? You can write whatever insights that you found. I'm not going to get a true answer. You have time to read it and get some idea of what kind of things you can write there. And so after reading this report, if there's anything that you are not sure about, talk to your tutors and they'll be able to help you.

22:07
Basic requirement for tasks. So there were some basic requirements for the tasks. You need to at least have addressed these items, otherwise your task will not be marked as complete. So these are the basic minimum requirement Otherwise your task will not be marked as complete. So these are the basic minimum requirement for completion of the task. Are you confident to rewrite or modify the code after completing this task? Section seven, code attachment, not applicable to the past tasks. So obviously for the past tasks, you don't include any code. You only include code for credit tasks, distinction tasks and high distinction tasks. For those tasks, you're required to attach code. Then you attach your Jupyter notebook file and then you'll write yes here. Otherwise your submission will be incomplete. And another question here, of course, for the past tasks, you just need to write not applicable here. That's fine.

23:14
Have you executed all the cells in your attached notebook and ensured there's no error? And if so, what are the next steps? And if so, what are the next steps? And if so, what are the next steps? Of course, for the past tasks, you just need to write, not pickable here. That's fine. Have you executed all the cells in your attached notebook and ensured there's no error? Again, this doesn't apply to the past tasks, so we'll just type any here. But if this is a credit distinction or high distinction task, you are required to have executed all the cells before submitting in your notebook. that all the cells before submitting in your notebook, and then you're also required to have made sure there's no error in your Jupyter notebook. If there's any error in your Jupyter notebook, your submission will be marked as incomplete. That means you'll be asked to resubmit, on track your submission will be marked to resubmit. On track, your submission will be marked as resubmit or flagged as resubmit, and you need to fix the error and resubmit. So make sure there's no error.

24:17
We do also have another section which, again, doesn't apply to the pass or credit tasks. This is only for distinction pass or credit tasks. This is only for distinction and high distinction tasks. And this is a requirement for a video recording of you presenting your work. So, or a video recording of your presentation. I've already explained this, and I will give you more details on the requirements in the coming weeks. But this is only a requirement for distinction and high distinction. And if you're targeting those tasks, you need to complete this section and provide the link here. You need to upload your video somewhere and provide the link here. We need to upload your video somewhere and provide the link here so your teacher can, you know, access the link and push the video from here.

25:13
And so you need to, at the end, acknowledge that my responses are accurate and are my own responses. I have met all the basic requirements of the task. I have read and fully understood the assessment guideline of the unit. This report does not exceed three pages, so you need to strictly follow the structure of this form. You should not exit three pages, and this is a three page form. Do not write long answers, keep your answers short and specific. And so, doesn't exit three pages. This report does not include code except references to function names or different parts of the tasks. Notebook. Also, my submission does not contain any credentials like your password, API keys, or things like that. Do not include any personal information there. Privacy. There's another important note here. If you have answered no to any of the questions in Section 6, that means the basic requirements for the task, if you have answered no to any of these parts, then please reconsider submitting your report and ask help from your tutors because we expect you to have got to the level that you can answer yes to these questions when you submit your report.

26:53
If you say no to any of these questions, take your time and spend more time. You have plenty of time. You can keep working on the task until the end of the semester, end of the trimester and then submit. So take your time and make sure that you understand, you understand the task so you can fulfill the basic requirements at least. And yeah, so then you can put your signature, your name here. You don't have to download and physically sign this one. You can just put a digital signature there or just type your name there. That's fine. And submit. All right. So this is your task completion report. And this is the only thing you need to complete for every past task, including past task P2. Okay.

27:59
Okay, let's move to the credit task C1. This is your first credit task, which is sort of an extension of the past task E2. So to be able to complete this task, you do the first completed past task E2. So if you have not, please do that first and then come to this task. So the process is the same, download the zip file and extract it with your disk, open the IPYNB file, the Jupyter Notebook file, in other words, which is this, there's a file called C1.IPYNB, this one, which is this file called C1.ipynb, this one, sorry, this one. And I'm just gonna close the solution file because we're not supposed to give you that. This is the files that I have. You're not gonna get the solution file. You only get the C1.YIPYNB file. This is your Jupyter notebook. You need to work on this one. Then you click on this one and work on it. The solution part is for a teaching team and I won't be sure with you. So you are expected to write code for credit tasks.

29:38
But don't worry, this is a guided task. So partially or partially guided. So also we don't give you the solution, but it's your how to get as close as possible to the solution and then complete the solution yourself. And this is straightforward and easy, just if you just know how to. So, yeah, so open the file with the instructions carefully, again, complete the task and submit. I'm going to go through the instructions because it's a bit different from the past task. Make sure you have completed task P1 before working on this task. Very important. Complete the task based on the comments and hints provided in the following sections. Show you. Complete the task completion form and you already know what's gonna task completion form or task completion report for. And before submission, please make sure you have executed all the cells in your Jupyter notebook without any error.

30:58
So for the credit task, you will be submitting your report, your task completion report form, and your Jupyter notebook. So make sure that you run your Jupyter notebook, run all the cells, and make sure there's no error in your notebook before submitting it. You'll be submitting the task report as a PDF file, and task report is the task completion report form. You'll be submitting that as a PDF file, and your solutions as an IPYMB file. So do not zip or combine these two files. So do not zip or combine these two files. That means do not zip or combine the task completion report and the IPYNB file. You need to submit them separately on OnTrack. You need to submit one PDF file, which is your task completion report, and one Jupyter file, which is your IP, Y and V file. So two items to be submitted for this task, task C1. You can do this by the end of week 12, but feedback will only be provided for submissions that are received by 11 a.m. on the due date.

32:23
And please do not include the data set in your submission. I think I also mentioned this for the past task. Well, for the past task, we don't need to mention this because you won't be submitting anything beyond the report, so no need to mention it. Obviously, if we don't ask you to submit any code, we also don't expect you to submit anything else including the data set. If we don't ask you to submit any code, we also don't expect you to submit anything else including the dataset. But yeah, we had to, we should emphasize this for the credit task, because obviously for your code to work, the dataset is needed, but we do have the dataset, so you don't need to include the dataset in your submission. All you need to submit is the task report or task completion report form and the IPY and B4 interpreter notebook. So do not include the dataset. This is the dataset. I will cut it in CSV. Do not include this. You already have it. The workshops are the primary venue for you to seek help. So I already explained this. venue for you to seek help. So I already explained this, I'm gonna skip it. Consider using online resources, explain this. And wishing you luck.

33:34
Section B. So as you can see here, there's no solution. So you need to provide the solution. You need to rank the solution, right? You need to follow the instructions and write no solution. So you need to provide the solution. You need to rank the solution. You need to follow the instructions and write the solution. So the first item asks you, read the data from the CSV file into a data frame. Okay. This should be a basic task for you to complete. If you're targeting a credit task for you to complete. If you're targeting a credit grade, you must be able to write this part independently because this is very basic. Just to read the data from the file. It's very basic. So if you cannot do that yourself, you probably need more practice on the past tasks. So go there and reinforce your learning, spend more time. Once you learn enough, then come to the credit task and you have more time to work on the credit task, the due date for the credit task. Of course, the deadline is the end of the semester, end of the trimester, so you have plenty of time for both of the tasks. But in terms of the due date by which you can get feedback, you have a longer due date for this one. You have longer time until you reach the due date and that is April the 3rd, so roughly two weeks. I will give you more time, so make sure you complete the past tasks and then start working on it.

35:12
So read the data from the CFD file. Let's assume that this is not a very basic operation and it's a little bit complicated and I need help, right? So how can I get help? One way is to go on the internet and search for how to read a CSV file into a data frame. This is what I wouldn't be surprised if you did six months or one year ago, but with chat GPT being here, it's a waste of time. So all you need to do is copy this, go to chat GPT and just paste it here. Sorry, I need to verify that I'm a human. Thanks for the verification. Now I paste and see what I got. So I got the code and I got comments on the code and I got an explanation on the code that tells me how it works. The read CSV function from Pandas reads the data from the CSV file and converts it into a data frame. You can then manipulate the data frame as needed for your analysis. You can then manipulate the data frame as needed for your analysis. The head function prints the first five rows of the data frame to the console to verify that the data was loaded correctly. What else do you need? All you need to be able to answer the question that we have put to you.

37:23
Read the data from the CSV file. And this is a markdown cell. So you just need to double click here so you can copy the text. All right. Okay. So what did I just get? I got the solution. What's the next step? What's the next step? What's the next step? Copy this and go here and paste it here? Probably not. That's not how you learn, right? So make sure you come back and do it yourself. And you write this yourself. If you're still not sure, you can go back and look at the solution and then come back and do it yourself. All right? So this is a very basic task, a very basic item. So ChatGP gave you the exact solution and more than what you need. As you move forward through the items, number two and three, they get slightly more complicated, right? So you can, of course, go back to the lecture recording, make sure you have understood the topics that we have covered. But if you stick a stock and we understand, even at the credit level, we don't expect you to be excellent programmers. That's not the expectation for the credit level, but we still expect you to be able to complete the coding with some guidance and ChatGPT here would be your best guide.

39:10
Of course you have your tutors in the lab or in the workshops that they also there to help you. But chat GPT is there for you, you know, 24 seven. So if you miss the opportunity to use it, then it's a big loss. All right, so let's look at the next question. So this is asking, multiply the total volume and average price columns and store the results in a new column called estimated revenue. Then calculate the estimated revenue for each region. revenue for each region, sort the resulting data in descending order by estimated revenue, and display the top five regions except total U.S. with the highest estimated revenue. So this is slightly more complicated than what you have here, right? So you need to now combine a few different things that you've learned. The question is giving you a hint. It says the estimated revenue of region X equals some of the estimated revenues in region X. Okay. So this is one thing to know. And then here, we have given you step-by-step guide as to what you need to write. So write your code here, okay? Then multiply the total volume and average price columns to create a new column called estimated revenue, right?

41:03
So let's try to do this together in ChatGPD, okay? So I'm gonna multiple, I'm gonna copy this and then go to, yeah, we'll give ChatG chat a hint. I was just waiting for annoying poll to go away. Okay, so here's a please consider the following task. Please stop. It right away starts to write you some code, but I want it to stop. I want to then ask this. I want to say, do this step for me. So multiply, multiply the total volume and average price columns to create a new column called as a metric array. Let's see what it does. multiply the total volume and average price columns to create a new column called estimated revenue. Let's see what it does. So it reads the data from the data frame from the CSV file and creates a data frame for me. And then it creates a new column like this, DF estimated revenue. This is the new column equals DF, DF estimated revenue, this is the new column, equals DF, which is the data frame, total volume times DF average price. So the multiplication of total volume and average price will compute the estimated revenue. Okay? So it gave me what I needed here. Again, try to write it yourself up there. If you couldn't do it yourself, go to ChatGPT, get help, come back. Don't paste the code here. Don't do what I'm doing right here now. Okay. And try to write this yourself.

43:23
What's the next step? Now we want to group the data by region and calculate the total estimated revenue of each region. Go there again. And see what it does. Okay. and see what it does. So I want to group the data by region and calculate the total estimated revenue for each region. So I need to use grouping. So this is the previous part that was already there. Just repeating it and then it's now it does the grouping. So revenue by region equals data frame dot group by region. So this groups my data by region. And then what do you call it? Compute the summation of the estimated revenue for each region. Okay. So the sum function is going to calculate that. And then, that, yeah, that's it. So that completed my, that completed this line. So exclude total US. Sometimes the descriptions may not be very clear. So you might need to explain to JGPT what you mean exactly, but let's see if it gets this. Exclude total US. Maybe you can tell Chargivity in the previous code, can you exclude Total US from the analysis? I'm thinking I'm thinking I'm thinking.

45:30
Okay, this is taking a while. Okay, this is an interesting warning. This content may violate our content policy. If you believe this is to be an error, please submit your feedback. Yeah, this is an error. We're not trying to exclude us from anything except our results. This is quite interesting. First time I'm getting something like this. Interesting observation. Right, so that's what I was thinking. All right, so here you can see, we already had revenue by region, and now we're excluding total U.S. from our revenue by region by dropping total U.S. And, yeah, it's doing a little bit more than we asked. Yeah, it's doing a little bit more than we asked. It's sorting our results in descending order by estimated revenue and display the top five regions. So... So in my case, it's also predicting my next request because I have already executed these lines to check how it works. So it is predicting my next request, which is this one sort of data in descending order by estimated revenue and displaying top five regions, because I had executed these lines before to test. So it is predicting my next request, and that's why it's giving me what I didn't ask for, because it is expecting me to at some point ask that.

47:36
It's calculating that for me. So if you try to run this, you might get slightly different results, but you can tell, you can tell that you could be, you know, if this is what you want, or it's not giving you what you expect, and it's going to, you know, help to help you produce what you want. And then if you're not sure about something, you can, for example, say, let's say you didn't quite get what this line does, or yeah, so let's say, I couldn't get this. Could you please explain? Okay. So in the line of code revenue by region, blah, blah, we are using group by method in Pandas to group the data in the data frame by unique values in the region column. By adding this, we are selecting only the estimated revenue column and then using the sum function to aggregate the data for each region. So if you go back to the lecture week two, we have done all these things, shown you examples of this. And this is just a practice on that. So not only can you ask, excuse me, chat GPT to give you a sample solution. You can also ask the software to produce, to elaborate on the answers.

49:35
And sometimes a sample solution that chat GPT produces may not be exactly what you want, but might be close to it. And then you can try to guide chat GPT produces may not be exactly what you want, but might be close to it. And then you can try to guide chat GPT to give you the correct solution or try to do it yourself. It's better to try to do it yourself. And then when you stop, go back to chat GPT and ask us the tool to help you find how to do that. help you find how to do that. So this is how you can move forward through each section and then get help. So you can also try to pace the whole question with all the parts and get a full sample solution, which may or may not work, and you might need to work on that to improve it. sample solution, which may or may not work, and you might need to work on that to improve it. But I suggest you do this line by line so you can learn every step and then move forward. So if you look at every part, we have broken the operations into sub-operations. So one, two, three here, and so on and so forth. So these will allow you to actually understand each step and you can take your time.

50:49
And let's say I want to, for example, walk on this one, you know, what is the average and mean price for each type of our colors, blah, blah. So it can, you know, tell chat GPT. Hello, Jeff, GPT. Okay, finding it hard to navigate to my... Okay. Right, so let's say... Let's consider the following question and generate Python code for, for what? For this Python code. code for what? For this example, extract the data from organic, for organic and conventional avocados in 2018. So I go here, my, Just paste this here. Let's see what I've got. So I'm asking to, based on this question, what is the average and mean price for each type of avocado? Sorry, so yeah, please consider this question. What is the average and mean price for each type of avocados, organic and conventional, in 2018? Be sure to include just the type, average price, and mean price columns in the results. the type, average price, and mean price columns in the results. So I'm asking, based on this question, generate Python code for extracted data from organic and conventional avocados in 2018. It's doing this for me. And then I can go from that.

53:01
So this is the part that extracts data for organic and continental avocados in 2018. So it says from the data frame, my data frame is the data set of avocados. So I've created the data frame from avocados data set. And you can see it's writing file name here because it doesn't know what is the exact file name. So obviously if you copy paste, this is not going to work. So you need to provide the correct file name to read the data. And then you can write here, and then you can try to get the next line work. So the next line is extracting the data for organic and conventional avocados. So if the data, if the year is 2018, because we want to extract the organic and conventional avocados data in 2018, right? So there are two conditions. One, the year should be 2018. So we're extracting the records whose year is 2018 and the end sign here. And the second condition is this one, which is a combination of two things. If the type of avocados is organic, equals organic, or the type is conventional. So either, so we're extracting both types of organic and conventional avocados. The data for both organic and conventional avocados, the data for both organic and conventional avocados, as long as the year is 2018.

54:54
So this is the condition. This is the statement that gives us that. And then you can first try to understand it. If you're not understanding it, again, I don't understand this little piece or this line. You can just ask the questions however you're comfortable. Ask the questions however you're comfortable. So I can ask, check your video, explain. Okay, let's see how it explains it. So in this line of code, we are using Boolean indexing in pandas to extract a subset of original data frame DF that meets certain conditions. The condition for the year being 2018 is given by DF year equals 2018. The condition for type being either organic or conventional is given by this statement, right? This statement here. So then Danny further explains, the vertical bars in this sign here are used to combine these two conditions. That means the F-type equals organic and the F-type equals conventional. To combine these two, we use this. And this is an OR operation. So, which means that either of these conditions must be true for a row to be included in the resulting data frame. So every row that is included in the resulting data frame has the year 2018 and is either organic, it's type is either organic or conventional, right?

56:46
And then further explains that the resulting subset of the data frame is assigned to the variable, blah, blah. So let's say I didn't, I still cannot understand this part, okay? So can you further explain this with more examples, please? Let's see what happens. So it's elaborating these in more detail. And I'm just waiting to see if it gives me any good examples. Yeah, here's an example. Okay, let's see what, you know. Okay, so it's creating like a sample of, based on my data, it's creating a sample. Okay, so here's a sample output as well. So yeah, it says, assume your data contains, you know, this, for example, type organic conventional, organic, organic conventional. So this is a list. So my data currently includes one column that is type and in each row I only have either organic or conventional, organic or conventional. So this is just one column of the data. It's just kind of giving me one slice of my data just as an example to show how it works. And then it's carrying out the same operation to check, you know, to include everything, if it is organic or conventional, which obviously contains all the rows because every row is either organic or conventional.

58:57
So organic, conventional, organic, organic, conventional. How many? One, two, three, four, five. So I need to have five rows there, which is correct. Zero, two, four, five rows there. Okay. And then you can try to abstract if you could change the, change the, you know, condition here for you and, you know, give you more sophisticated examples. And this is how we can keep learning and keep generating more and more examples. Okay, I'm going to stop at this point, but this is how, you know, you can focus one of these items and just learn more and more and more about, you know, about the sub items that are listed here. So technically you should be able to produce a solution that is very close to the full solution or the creative task by simply asking these questions that I have asked you from ChatGPT. Isn't it amazing? So you'd be just one step away from getting your credit grade, and that is to be able to communicate with an AI tool and communicate with an AI tool and discuss the problem that you want to solve with it and learn from it and try to combine those bits and pieces and run them. That's the expectation from your credit.

01:00:43
So you are still guided here. You are still guided here, but you need to ask questions to get the guidance. And to be able to ask questions, you need to have understood the basic concepts. So, again, in terms of the coding, there's not lots of heavy coding involved. Again, in terms of the coding, there's not lots of heavy coding involved. As you can see, a lot of this can be generated for you using ChatGPT, which is, in my opinion, far better than going online and starting to search to how to do things, which takes hours. And at the end of the day, you get answer that is not better than what you get from ChagGPD. So it doesn't mean that everything ChagGPD generates is going to be accurate. Sometimes it may not give you what you expect. It's not a human. You cannot read what is in your mind. It's just answering you based on what you're putting into the tool. So if you get irrelevant answers, try to revise your questions or maybe ask your tutors what kind of questions can I ask? How can I get help? And they should be able to guide you. And otherwise, feel free to come to me directly and I'm happy to show you how to do it. So this is the block and yeah, enjoy learning.