That's the real-life scenario. But here, when you are presenting, make sure you go around two minutes. That's the thing. Okay? Walk the audience through your code and explain the steps you took to clean, what, what steps you followed to clean and prepare the data for analysis. So b- that means imagine yourse-yourself as a, as, uh, as a data scientist. You are working on a project. You start with your name, student ID, and a bit of your introduction or-- and tell us about, uh, the data science work you, you have done. Uh, kind of your, your own... You are trying to, uh, demonstrate a small project, uh, as a data scientist to the audience, to the stakeholders, something like that. What are the cleaning and preparation you have done for the data? Uh, um, you can share the screen, you can explain the code, uh, share the steps. Don't, don't try to, um, go too much detail of the code level. Too much detail, uh, because, uh, uh, in that case, you'll not be able to cover maybe in two minutes' time. Okay? Uh, go to a bit of high level, uh, your code and explain the code or maybe any specific function you have used or any specific, uh, method you have used or any specific package you have used. You mention that and make it clear. Okay? If this is for part two. Right. And then next step is maybe you talk about your data analysis. This is the core part of it, which is eight minute pretty much. I think eight minute is quite enough, quite enough to discuss the, uh, the, the whole data analysis things. Okay? For each question, walk... So there are something in your, uh, Python file, okay? In H-HD One Python file. So there are some sections of course over there. You can probably e-explain each question and walk through the code and explain it. So explain each of the step, what the code has done, and probably any outcome you received, you explain that. Present the result of your analysis using plots. So one is the code explanation or the process of the code, and the other thing is the plot or table, your presentation. Okay? And finally, your observation. What is the your observation? What you have found? What is the outcome you have found? What observations? Okay? And maybe, maybe give us a bit of creative your observation. Okay? We all are human. We walk through the street or we look around the nature and everywhere, but different people have different observation. Correct? We want to see your observation here. So try to be creative, try to be critical, uh, when you present your observation. That's important. Okay? And this is the things makes you different from, mainly makes you different from others. Where you do the, uh, share your observations, where you show your plots. These two things makes you very different from the other people. Okay? Guys, are you with me? Is that making sense all right? Catherine, I believe sounds all right. Okay, excellent. Yeah. So, uh, why I'm just focusing on these things, there is a big reason behind it, is, um... And also try to show, as I said, try to show a bit of creativity here in these two places. They are important. And observations are important. The reason is like, look, the people in the, uh, in the planet, there are various different people. But based on their observation, based on their, uh, way of the, the think makes them different from others. And that's how actually, uh, Sir Isaac Newton was able to discover, uh, the laws of gravity because he was sitting under an apple tree and then he-- an apple fall from that tree to, uh, to him, and he was thinking, "Why apple is coming down? Why it's not going up?" Okay? Uh, we all know that something actually from top, it fa-falls towards the ground. We know that, but, but his observational, his thinking was different. That's why he have discovered the laws of gravity, right? And on the other hand, Albert Einstein was observing a bit different, right? Different things. That's how he has discovered theory of relativity. And he was observing like how the universe is working, and he was observing that time in the, uh, the, the Earth is not same as time in other, other planet. When you travel with the time of speed, if you go far, far, far from our galaxy to other place, maybe time will be different. Okay? Maybe if you go to a black hole, the time is completely different than the Earth itself. Okay? So that's how the observation makes a human different. So that's why I highly recommend you, uh, during plotting and observations, try to be a bit creative. Challenges and obstacles. Of course, while doing these things, you might have faced some of the challenges, some of the issues, some of the things that seem to me, to you, maybe from the dataset front, from the outcome front, from the coding front, you have received some of the observations or some of the challenges. You can probably explain that, how-- what, uh, challenges you have encountered And how you overcame those challenges. Okay? Possibly you can say also, uh, how things could be better. I think that's a bit of general guideline of how we do submit or how we do present our video. Um, now I will probably go through a bit on the code and try to explain you, uh, a bit on our expectations. So I'll close it up until now. If anyone have any questions, um, even Catherine or anyone, if you have any kind of questions, do feel free to ask me. I'm happy to, happy to, um, explain that to you guys. Okay? Let me know if you have any particular question. So what I will do, I will close this screen now. Uh, close this one. Um, now I will probably go back and see task completion report. I'll try to explain a bit, and then I will go try to explain with these three files. Um, task completion report is pretty much as usual. Whatever you have, um, whatever you have done, and, and the questions are very clear or items are very clear. Uh, make sure you in some places where you need to code attachment, okay? You need to attach the code and a response to the video link because it is hedged data. So you might need to make sure you have done that right. When you-- some of the students have attached the code so far I have seen, but sometimes I can see that I need to request for the, for the access to that code again. So better when you share the code, you give the-- give already, uh, access to your teacher. Uh, if it is OneDrive, you can give access to the teacher, or you can create the file or link in a way that does not require in any permission. So that becomes easier for us to check. I was checking some of the credit task. I noticed that I need to again, um, request for permission. Then a student need to grant the reque-- uh, grant the permission to access the file. Then I could access, and then I need to do it, uh, check it again. So that's cut. Coming and going back and forth takes a bit of time. So this is the, the things. Make sure you do that. Um, again, you write the things in your own words. That is the best thing you can do. One other thing actually I want to highlight here. Um, I'm not sure. Many student take it a bit boring to write the report. Uh, this report writing. Many student I have noticed that they find it very boring or sometimes what they do, they pretty much repeat the previous things and copy-paste, uh, or they take it very lightly. Of course, every task you need to have your, your own observation and individual, uh, way of, of writing the things. Because as you will notice that while writing code, you think one way. While writing response, you think another way. So your brain works differently. Even you will notice when you write in pen and paper with, with the-- with pen and, and a paper, your brain works differently. So see where your words more... Your, your, your thinking are more creative and more, uh, better. You, you try to follow that track. I recommend that one for you guys. The other thing I would say, this is a good skill you should practice from now on. The reason is when you will... I met a-- I met an alumni in, in, in that panel, uh, that I was talking to you, uh, today. Uh, the panel with the students. Uh, so I met an alumni, and she work in a company as a, as a data scientist. So, so she was telling-- I was asking her, actually, uh, she came to see me again at Deakin last week, and she met me, and I was having a good chat with her while in a, in our, uh, while taking coffees, and we are having. I asked her, like, "What, what made you or what skills in the university really helped you when you entered to this job?" So one of the things she was mentioning that writing report actually helps-- helped me a lot in, in some cases when we try to write the code as, uh, we-- our brain works in a very technical way. So basically, the thing is that the idea here is as a, as a human, when we are trying to, uh, for example, I'm a mathematician or, or, or I, I'm reading chemistry, you will feel like these things are working with symbols. Similarly, when you do coding or programming, you feel like, "Hey, this is boring," because things are really weird language, programming language we are using and we are working. But this report is giving you an opportunity to think m- as a, not as a non-technical person and explain the things to a non-technical person So which means you shift your brain or it shift your thinking from technical the- to non-technical or a business perspective. So that's what is actually you develop the skillsets, and when you go to the industry, you eventually need to write a lot of reports on your findings, on your outcomes, on your deliverables, um, on your, on your result to the, uh, stakeholders. Because a stakeholders can be an investor, can be a business owner, can be a, uh, um, another person who has no technical knowledge. So what we want to make sure we are... if we are able to efficiently communicate with those stakeholders who does not have any technical background, and we should be able to explain to them what I have done. Okay? Communicate with them in a written report. So, so these skills are extremely, extremely important. Please don't take it lightly. And when you write the report, you make sure you understand it and, and you are able to explain it, um, to a very general person who probably may not have the IT background. I think that's, uh, that's all about the report. If you guys have any, again, any questions, please let me know, but don't forget to share the video link as well as share the code link. And if you share the code link, make sure the code is accessible. Uh, that's make it accessible at first shot so that anyone, uh, go through your code, they should be able to execute it, or they should be able to run it easily. Uh, any questions up until now? If not, I will try to go to the code that has been shared with us. Anyone have any particular questions up until now? I don't see any questions so far, so let's go back to the code and let's try to see, uh, if we can discuss something on that. Um, so we have-- Have a look at this. We have mainly these three files: HD one, credential-sample.ini, and collect.ipynb, which is the Jupyter Notebook file. So two Jupyter Notebook file and one the credentials. I think let's open those things. Um, and first of all, today I'll, I'll not use Jupyter Notebook. I'll ju-use any online platform to open those files. So here I have that platform ready. I have used, uh, Google Colab to, uh, open those file. So let me, let me share that file. I think you can see now. So this is the Google Colab just to sh- open those files. That's why I don't need to use, uh, Jupyter Notebook for now. Uh, uh, this is eventually a Jupyter Notebook platform. So here, here, here what we are asking, analyzing YouTube video data from news publishers. So there, there are different news publishers, and we are trying to analyze YouTube video data. What is here is this task focuses on analyzing YouTube videos about a news topic, that is COVID-19, published by four English ne- news publisher. So this is a video talking about the COVID-19 in twenty-twenty, actually, and, uh, the news publisher have some video channels. Usually mo- all the news publisher have their own video channel. So, uh, and then, uh, from a start date to the end date. Keep in mind start date to end date is very important to present something. You will need to specify the news topic, so topic I have to specify, and the list of keywords to search for the videos about that topic on YouTube. So basically, every news channel have their-- every news publisher have their news channel in YouTube, which means we can watch the news from YouTube. That's the simple thing. Now we need to focus on at least four publisher and some from some specific date. Okay? And we need to specify the topic and the list of keywords to search for the videos about the topic. For example, the topic is COVID-19, so we need to put some keywords because normally anything, for example, if I want to search anything about AI, we need to put some keyword in the search bar. So based on that keyword search bar, we put the keyword in the search bar, YouTube search bar, and it brings a list of videos from that topic. Correct? So understand first the context. Also, you will need to extract the channel ID. So every channel have their channel ID number. Actually, when we see if it is BBC, Fox News or whatever, we see they have their channel ID, specific ID number Even if you create your own YouTube channel, you will have also a ID number for that channel. Okay? So channel IDs of news publishers using the function get_channel_info. So some fix function is already given to us, uh, given to you, attached collect.ipynb notebook file. Okay? So that collect file is here. In this collect file has actually you can see, um, the, the channel information is there. Okay? So, uh, can I see? Get. You can see, uh, get_channel_info. You can see that, right? So we have that information is there. You can use get_channel_info to extract channel IDs of sample video from news publishers. So you can see that we have been given there, right? Uh, so this is, this is important and this is interesting. So we have been given something here. Now, let me go back and have a look at that. Given to the attached file, all settings need to be specified in section B: Settings of Collect. So we need to go to the settings.collect. So there are actually collect file is there. You can see here. So keep in mind, I-- if I can make you very simple-- if I can make the things very simple for you. HD one is the high distinction one question file, where you are pretty much showing the output, showing the activities in this file. However, collect.ipynb, that Jupyter file is pretty much is the, uh, settings of data collections. Okay? This is pretty much a setting file you can say data collections. All right? So that's what it is. All settings need to be specified in section B: Settings of Collect file, and also copied into, into section B: Settings, uh, of this Jupyter notebook. Okay? And please note that the term news publisher and channel have been used interchangeably. So sometimes we have used news publisher. Basically news publisher, each news publisher have their channel. So this has been used interchangeably. Uh, each news publisher has a channel. If a news publisher has more than one channel on YouTube, pick any. So basically, you can choose any of them. Okay? As stated in your task completion report. The following instructions convey important information and read them. So for example, we have mainly, mainly I would say, we have mainly three files. Uh, we have discussed already, uh, directions and video presentations. The-- but mainly we have that one is the python collect, uh, .jupyter notebook file and credential-samples.ini. So these two are the main file, and another is the hd1, the Jupyter notebook file. Okay? Please watch video about sentiment analysis. So this is about, I don't know, you guys have... Anyone have idea about sentiment analysis? Okay. Anyone here idea about sentiment analysis? Okay, I'll try to explain it here. Uh, you can watch this video. Sentiment analysis is actually nothing but when people express their sentiment in the text, wr- written text format. So how to understand when people post some review comments or post some of the things, um, how people, how people express their sentiments. Means the person is worried, stressed, confused, or, or the person has, has some kind of confusion or angry or happy or satisfied. How can we understand all these sentiments? Okay? This is all about that. Rename that credential.sa- credential-sample.ini file. Basically, this file was you are asked to rename it. The reason behind it, um, the reason behind it is, uh, this file, this credentials.ini, this is, this is the sample file given, but this credential file actually require you to put your information. Uh, let me try to do that credential. Open that file. So basically, this is the information has to be, uh, YouTube API service name, YouTube API version name, and developer key. Means, uh, you are the developer. You should have access. As a developer, you should have access. So you need to create a bit of You need to use the key to access the data. Okay? So that is the key. You need a API key. This is mainly an API key you need to have, okay, to access that YouTube data. So create your YouTube API key, and how to create developer key, you can probably watch the video and that video has explained... Let me try to open it. Redirect notice. Maybe you don't want to visit the page. Looks like... Let me see. I really hate that, uh, the things that is called, uh, uh, ads. So how to create YouTube, um, uh, YouTube API key or how to get actually. Uh, you can probably watch any video, or you can probably search here YouTube API key. And different language and different people have explained at different times. See, these are very short, like only one point four four. See, if that lo- short video doesn't work, you can use any long video. Or even if you feel like the video is, is, is, uh, not very helpful for you, you can even ask AI. AI should also help you to, uh, guide you through a step-by-step how to use that YouTube, um, API. So a- API is nothing but in an authentic way, just, uh, if I make it very simple for you. Imagine, um, I want to open a locker at Aus- Australia Post, uh, next to my house, let's say, uh, in, uh, any branch. So I may, may probably need to first put some credential and give my credential to them and, and validate that this is the right person, I am the right person. And then probably based on my all my credentials, they check and then things, and then they are happy to give me a key. "Here, that is your key. You can access." So that's how they make the thing secure and, and you are able to use that space. The same thing here for YouTube for these, uh, places. Uh, they give you access to different videos through this key. That means they understand that this is the person trying to access this data, and they allow you to access this data through an API key and make, make sure that you are not a robot, you are a human who is actually trying to use, uh, that API. Okay? See the following. Okay. And, um, you can view following link for more details, so developers.google.youtube. So Google has actually has shared, uh... Let me see the video. So it has shared actually the page, and the page is very clear and step-by-step. Very, very... I would say it's a very simple and very straightforward way, but that gives you quite a bit of detail on how you can use the, use the API. Okay? Resources and resource type. Or resource type means what types of field you can access. You can see in the channel, you can access channel banner, channel section. And basically, after collecting, collecting this data, after collecting this data, you can probably analyze a lot of things. Okay? Even you can analyze, uh, how can I say? A lot of, lot of, uh, forensic analysis also you can do. Okay? So these are the few things. And you can see here, uh, s-supported operation. Look here, they support some operation for general user. Okay? And some operation they don't know- they do not support. Okay? So some operation they support, some operation they don't support. So basically you can see watermark. So s- so some operations are free, maybe some operations if you want to do, you may need to get for subscription or something else. All right? Or maybe take a special permission from them. But ultimately, they have even much more data than we are able to access, uh, about the YouTube channels. Okay? Much, much more data. Even which IP, uh, the person has logged in, what time, all detailed information you can get. Anyway, uh, the thing is, uh, a lot of things are explained here and examples are also given. Actually, this example will help you to understand the things much better. I recommend you guys have a look at these examples. Example one, example two, example three, and example four. A lot of example with the description is also given. Okay? And how the data is being collected. Okay? Specifically, the statistics you can see, view like, view count, and even, even, uh, comment count. Okay? So they have shown a lot of things here and how these things work. You can go through this. I, I believe this is a great resource for your assignment. This is the page. And, and probably you can, you can do a bit, bit more and you can have a look, have a look. These are very well-established resources and very good one. Okay? Uh Uh, authorized res- request, overview, installed apps. Uh, a lot of, a lot of things are there. You can, you can probably go through from data API, YouTube data API. Okay? YouTube data API and a lot of explanations are there. Okay? Um, what else? Actually, some of the big, big people, some of the big, um, how can I say? The, the, the people with more and more subscribers, some of the channels they have more than millions. Some of the channels that has more than millions of subscribers, they may use these APIs and create a clean dashboard, and they can actually have a look at the comments people has given, what people want from them, what else. A lot of information they can collect. Every individual user, okay, can collect this data. So I highly recommend all of you, if you are doing HD1, uh, go through this API and you will get to know a lot of things. Okay. What else I was going to discuss? Okay. So this is the link, is very important. Please note projects that enable YouTube data API have a depau... Note projects that enable the YouTube data API have a default quota allocation for ten thousand units per day. To make an efficient use of your quota, please avoid multiple executions of this. Okay? Which means, which means, um, I can have a look at this one. Have a look at this. To work with YouTube APIs and queries, you need Google, install Google API Python client using this conda. So this is a very clean information given to you how you can install Google API Python client. The reason behind this is you are actually, you as a client, you are trying to use Python code to access to the Google server, which means YouTube, and then try to collect the data. So the idea here is the, the user, when you are sending requests to the, to the API or sending requests to the, uh, to the Go- uh, YouTube API, so basically you need... There is a limit how much s- uh, you need or how much a request you can send. I think I can have a look at this. Uh, so make sure you don't send too much request per day. You can see here, uh, ten thousand units per day combined with, uh, a- all other endpoints. So basically, when you are trying to send request to the, uh, to the YouTube, uh, when you are trying to collect the data from YouTube, they have given you a limit for certain unit. If you try to go, uh, above that, and if you try to send more request, they might say this is... Or there is a throttle effect, or this is probably might be done by a bot or AI. They might completely cancel your API, or they might completely stop you or block you. So again, you may need to open another API and, and, and a lot of things. Uh, sorry. Mm. So this is, this is what we have to really, uh, careful about. So make sure you understand, uh, that. Okay? To work with YouTube send queries you need to use, okay, I have discussed it, and specify news topic and news publishers. Okay? Topic is maybe, for example, COVID-19 or anything you like to, and a list of keyword to find the videos about that topic. So if you are talking about the AI and robotics, or maybe AI and machine learning, or AI and data science, y- uh, you can probably put some, uh, first of all, consider a topic and then put some keywords around that topic. You can extract the keywords by looking at some sample video titles. So keywords, maybe as I said, you can, you can go to maybe, let's say... Oh, sorry. I think I... My battery is a bit down. I have to move and connect my... Can you allo- allow me just a few minutes? Uh, let me bring my charger. Just give me a second. All right. Again, um, okay. I think, um... So I'm discussing here. So again, important is using keyword. Choose at least four popular, we have discussed that. Extract manually the video IDs from sample videos from different publishers. Okay? So you can, uh, you can do by clicking and share button for each video. So probably, um... So, so probably you can try checking it from here. When you try to see the things, you can probably see maybe the channels. Okay? Maybe you can see the channel, how you can try to get the channel information from when you have the share options. Okay? So there are many, many ways you can get the channel information. Um, this is one of the things that is saying, um, you can, uh, uh, manually can extract the channel information. Okay? Extract the channel IDs of the video. So channel IDs, um, we can get the channel ID by, as I said, we can get the channel ID information. So from here, for example, uh, the keywords is given here, the coronavirus, COVID, COVID-19, and pandemic. So you can see, uh, the channels information for Fox News. Uh, let me go to Fox News now. Let me see Fox News. We can try Fox News. Um, okay, let me try to... Hmm. Uh... Okay. Okay. I think Fox News has too many channels, so make sure whatever Fox News you are trying to... Uh, you can see Fox News clips and business there are a number of, but see Fox News. Okay. See like which one you are, you are trying to use. Of course, you can use this channel information from here. Okay? Uh, channel ID, uh, these are the things given to us. All right? Um, maximum videos actually here, maximum videos are fifty. Um, that means the maximum number of video that should be returned for each request. So when you are trying to send the request, maximum fifty videos you can. So that's, that's how you can collect the, uh, uh, the videos for each of these channels. Uh, okay. What else? We are in, um, channel videos. You can extract the chosen keywords and this and channel information. Okay. Collect the video and comments. So these are the two things, videos and comments using collect dot this. So you try to use. So this is, as I said, this is the place which is for mainly the data collections, and this is the place for, uh, for presenting your data. That means you need to do cleaning, you need to do, uh, plotting, and you need to, uh, send your observations, all these sort of things. Okay? Now where we are? Here. So... So videos, collect the videos and comments. So we are asked to use the videos and the comments. Specify channel ID, IDs and names in settings section. So when you try to do the settings, uh, attached in collect dot this channel. So you, in the settings section, we need to use that. Whatever in your case, you can use the, uh, channel ID and channel name. So this is the ID, and that is the name of the channel. Uh, that's what we are asked to do. Uh, whatever data you are trying to collect. So you have been given that collect sample. So data collection, that sample is given to us. Uh, and specify the keywords, what keyword you are looking for. If you, as I said, if you are looking for AI, you need to put the specific keywords. Okay? That's it. Uh, okay. Uh, my suggestion is don't, don't, don't use this default one, the default coronavirus, COVID or pandemic. Use something new, some different one, new one. And a specific start date and end date, because from which date to which date you want that videos from, and specify the maximum. You can extract at least twenty videos per news, uh, channel. So basically, for example, here, one, two, three, four. Four channels are there. Uh, I don't know how many channels you are asked to use here. Um, at least four, I guess, right? Mm. Four channels. So from four channels, uh, this is saying at least twenty-five videos per news publisher. So you can use twenty videos, twenty or twenty-five videos so that, uh, you can see here, it is saying actually fifty videos. So you can use twenty, twenty-five videos. So twenty-five videos, it will be a hundred videos. All right? And what else? What else we are given, I think. And here, the other thing is, make sure for your specified topic, three hundred comments per news channel can be collected. Okay? So whatever topic you are choosing it for your topic, so per news publishers. Okay, you can try to collect. So people are sending comments, right? Uh, so that comments is, um, uh, that comment is basically for what? That comment is for, uh, this comment, the comment that you want to collect from the publisher. Please do not make any changes to the color file. Execute this file to collect the videos will be stored in. So basically, you want to store that video. So the thing that is-- That means ideally here, you are trying to collect the comment, right? You are trying to collect comment. You are trying to collect the videos. So two things mainly you are trying to do. You are trying to collect the videos file, and you are trying to videos.csv, and you are trying to collect the comments.csv. Two files you are trying to collect from four news channels based on the keyword that you give, and you need to put a sta- a specific date and time, a start date and a start end date. So here, twenty, twenty, twenty twenty and twenty twenty-three, pretty much three years of data. Uh, among these three years, like, try to collect fifty videos, so you can try to collect in your own way. I think that's a good thing we can talk about, and I think that's it. Complete the task. Choose only one question from section E. So basically, you start to work with settings in section B. You put the settings here. How-- what is the keyword? What is the start date, end date, and all information, you put it here. And, uh, for importing, you need a lot of this, um, a lot of these libraries. As I said, these are libraries for natural language processing. So this is called NLTK, means Natural Language Toolkit. And this is for data cleaning, stop words, stop words. Word cloud is used for data presentation. So when you try to present your comments, user comments and everything, and the keywords, probably you can use word cloud. Okay? Uh, calendar, you may need calendar also. For the date formatter, you may need to format the date, and you may need to probably, uh, do a lot of data or tokenizations. So that's why we use NLTK dot stem. From that, we used word lemmatizer. Lemmatizer means word, word lemma. We try to, try to break down the keyword. From the comments, we want to get the specific words from the things. So this is a bit of example given here. Um, and, uh, stop words means actually when we say, for example, write Python code that cleans the data for analyzing the video and comments. So here, basically, the, for that, these are not important wo- important word that carry any meaning. So basically, stop words are the words that actually does not require or does not carry any meaning, so we have to get rid of them. So this is the only idea. So basically, you may need to clean and prepare the comment file. Okay? That's what it is, and that's what it is written here. I think, let me see if there is anything mentioned. Okay, let me first read this. Question E. Okay, we'll come about that. Please note that each question you must briefly discuss your observation. So you have... You are doing cleaning, you are doing D1, D2, and D3, you are doing something. So you briefly discuss your observation, uh, on each of the task. For E, analyze video and comments. Please make sure you have watched this video. Understood sentiment analysis, which means actually, uh, as I mentioned earlier, the sentiment is something what people has expressed. After watching the video, people has expressed something. Oh, they liked it. They hate it. This is very bad This went really well. Oh, awesome. Something people has mentioned and expressed, and sometimes people don't express anything. Oh, yeah. People may say, uh, this, this was maybe no positive or negative, they just describe something. Uh, yes, I found, I found something relevant to my life and blah, blah, blah. They mentioned something, for example. So sometimes the positive sentiment we get, sometime neutral sentiment, sometime negative sentiment. So the idea here is choose only one of the following questions. So you are-- There are a couple of question given here. One of them you may need to, you may need to implement. Only one of the following question and write Python code to answer it. Please note that you must briefly discuss. Again, each time you need to briefly discuss, you need to, uh, some function has been already mentioned here to get sentiment and to get sentiment score. Sentiment means actually, first of all, you get the positive and negative and neutral, but a score means out of, out of one, how much it is positive. Let's say if it is positive is point six and negative is point four and neutral is zero, which means people have talked sixty percent positive in that comment, forty percent negative in that particular comment. So that's what is called sentiment, uh, the polarity of the sentiment, and you get the score of this. Okay? That's what it is. So basically E one to E three, you are advised to respond to one of these. That's it. Uh, so let me go ahead a bit. Briefly discuss observations. Please note that there is no unique solution for most of-- most questions. You-- If you need to make any assumptions, state your assumptions. So basically, uh, there is no specific, as I said, it's, uh, pretty much open to you. There is no specific, uh, solution. If you need to make some assumption, you make it and you go ahead, you complete the project and let us know, I assume these, these, these things. Okay? And, and in writing the report. Please note that if something has not been clearly stated in a question, that is the type of visualization. For example, you are asked to plot it or table or maybe some of the word cloud or something is already, uh, some of the libraries are there. It means you are allowed to make your own choice. As I said, already, uh, the plotting word cloud does not fall under. There was somewhere I was showing the word cloud. Somewhere here, for example, word cloud. So word cloud does not actually fall under any kind of table or plotting. It's a visualization type is word cloud. I want to show, uh, what people talk about, about, uh, this channel. I think I have one printed. See if I have it in my paper. I'll try to show you. Uh, I don't know if I have it or not. I, I was the other day, I prepared a presentation where I tried to create a word cloud. Not sure if I have it. Um, no, I think... Let me see in any way. Okay. I don't know you guys can see it or not. So I have done a bit of analysis. For example, I have been teaching. I don't know you can see or not. I'm not sure. I'll try to just show that in s- in the camera. Let me get out of these things. I don't know if you can. I think probably should be all right. So I was trying to show that... Okay. Um, I was teaching for many years. I have been teaching at university, so I have collected a student feedback about me, and I try to create a word cloud, uh, for myself for last, I think, how many years? Uh, twenty-two to twenty-four. Three years, actually. So I have seen three years of student feedback and collected a student has given me all the feedbacks, and then I created a word cloud. So I, as I can-- as I think probably you can see, I don't know you can see it well or not. So in this, uh, word cloud, actually, um, I try to highlight what are the things a student liked or a student has talked more about me. So one of the keyword I can read, I think three or four keyword that I can see is one of the main c- keyword I can see is the helpful. This is the biggest one I can see. And another is good. So maybe he's good at explaining things, good with example, something like that a student has mentioned. And some other few words, easy working. So maybe explain the things easily or something like some kind of word cloud. Yes, Catherine, go ahead. I just wanted to check for the interview, will we, will we be asked about the code that's already been provided for us? Like the code that creates the, the functions for the, um, sentiment analysis and the cleaning and preparation and that sort of thing? Or just the code that we're writing? Uh, look, these are the things that are given to you. These are the code for collecting the data, right? Uh, some of the codes are for data collections and things are given to you. Okay? And some of the answers you have already created, right? Some of the questions you will be answering. Correct? Yeah. I'm sort of... I'm asking 'cause we, um, can add data into, say, that D1 there if we do additional cleaning and add- Yeah ... data to D2, but there's already... Uh, sorry, add code into those if we wanna do more cleaning and preparation. But- Yeah ... will we be asked questions about the code that's already been provided for us? Yeah, I g- I got the question. So look, the c- code that has been provided to you, have you used that code for data generations or anything? Have you provi- have you used them? If you have used them, right? Or that has- Yeah ... generated something for you, you should ideally understand that. Yeah. Cool. You got the point? Understood. Yeah, yeah. No, I understood. Because if you don't understand how you are able to make some changes over here. Yeah? Yeah. So that's the things, at least, uh, to some level we, we, we would expect that you understood that code. Otherwise, uh, that doesn't make sense, like how you build something on top of that. Got it. You got it? You got it? Thank you. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Thanks. I think that's a good questions, but I, I can see pretty much many things are given here, and the explanation or the, the things are very well, how can I say? Very clearly mentioned what has to, has been done, uh, what h- what should be done. For example, if something has not been done or stated clearly, uh, type of visualizations, it means you are allowed to make your own choice. So things are pretty much given, read the guidelines, how should be submitted, all sorts of things. And many of the code actually, or I can say hints for the codes are already given. So you just need to know a bit like, uh, not all the libraries, but my suggestion is at least in the code level, for example, video DF, published at work, what it is doing. So I think from the, even from the comment itself, we understand what it is doing. So when you get it to work, we ideally expect that, oh, you understand this, what has been given to you. Yeah? Thank you. Cool. No problem. Thank you so much. I think we are almost there, and we... I will, if needed, I will probably explain again next week few more things, or next week, again, I will, uh, explain, uh, more of these files if you need. But I hope you'll be able to work, uh, already on, on these things. Um, let me know if you have any further comments or any questions we can discuss next week. Okay? That is the last chance we get before we go for the interview. All right? All the best for you guys. Take care. Maybe I will see you next week. Thank you. Have a good evening. See ya. Have a good evening. Bye. Take care. Take care. Bye-bye. Bye.