Hello, everyone. How are you doing today? Good. How about you? Very, very good. Lachlan, how was the day? How was the weekend? Uh, weekend was pretty good. Actually, last week was kind of eventful for me. I got a- Oh, yeah. I've been in the process of applying for a role with the Defense Force for after I graduate since about January last year when I was looking for my internship. Mm-hmm. And I got my proper job offer last week. Congratulations. This is... This should be party time then . Yeah. Well, not party time. I don't actually. I'm, I'm st- All right ... I'm not enlisting until March, but so it's still- Yeah ... so it's still months away, but, you know. All right. Uh, let, let us know a bit more about the process and everything. We, we all want to hear from each other. Go ahead. Um, so the role I'm enlisting for is a networks operator with the Navy, so I'll be, uh, responsible for, um, well, making sure, like, the IT networks on the ships between the bases and stuff, um, works and facilitating communication between them. Um, the role itself has, I think about a six-month, a little over, like six to seven-month training period, um, and then two years of minimum service. Oh, that's excellent. That's very excellent. Mm-hmm. So what, what do you think, like, a, like a w- what, what skills exactly work for you in this role? What, what, what actually helped you to stand out? Or what do you think which, "This is the, this is the qualification or this is the skill that I had, and that's why they have chosen me." Is there anything specifically? Um. Yeah. No, I, I'm not entirely sure. It might be because of my history with, um, Scouting Australia, 'cause I was a part of that for several years. But it could also, um, it could be, uh, my specific IT skills, though, again, I'm not entirely sure. Uh- W- what, what was the thing you said, the history with... What Australia group? Uh, Scout- Scouts Australia. Oh, oh. I was a part of the Australian Scouting Association- Makes sense. Yeah, yeah, yeah ... for several years. Scouts As- Okay. Oh, all right. All right. Okay. That could be one thing. Yeah. Not bad. So, hmm, that's good. That's good. So, yeah, so how was the process? Like, how many times or what, or how many types or how many times of interview they have taken from you? What, what are the kinds of interviews? So the process, so it, as I say, started back in, um, January, where I went through and the initial, um, application process was me submitting, basically, like I submitted my resume, a cover letter, and I went through and gave them, like, my general history. So I told them about my history in Scouts, what I w- how far along I was in my course at the time, that kind of thing. Mm-hmm. Um, then after that, I, once you get, uh, accepted as a candidate- Mm-hmm ... you have to submit an, you have to keep submitting an up-to-date version of your resume. So if, like my, I'd started my internship and completed it over the course, so I had to update my resume with that. Um, I then have to submit, like, various other documentation, like birth certificate and all this kind of stuff, official stuff to prove who I am. Mm-hmm. Then, um, once you've completed, once that, um, is part, you, during that period you also choose, um, like what roles you wanna go with. At the... You're also are assigned, uh, or put in contact with a, um, person in the recruiting section of the Defense Force, and they will help you. You'll be in regular contact with them, discuss, like, what roles you wanna, you wanna aim for, your preferences, that kind of thing. Um, once you've reached the interview stage, there's three types of interviews, um, that I had, that I had to go through. Um, they were, um, a medical one, so I have to make sure that I'm in proper- Gotcha ... medical health. Mm-hmm. There's a s- there's a psychological interview- Hmm ... um, where they have you sit down with a psychologist and go through, um, and the psychologist talks you, um, through things, make sure you understand, make sure you're of sound mind- Hmm ... that you are not, that you are making this choice, that you kind of understand the import, that you are, um, that you don't have, like, any, potentially any underlying conditions that could, um, make you, uh, I don't wanna say a threat, but like ineffective in the r- in the, in the Defense Force. Hmm. And then there's, um, the actual, they call it the defense interview, but it's the job interview. You will complete, um- An interview for each, in, in the same time, um, in a row, you'll, for each of your preferences. Um, and so- Mm-hmm ... they'll go through, they'll ask you about, um, the role, they'll talk a bit, you'll talk about the stuff. Um, then depending on branch and high, how high up the position, there's potentially two other, um, kind of interviews if... So my role with the Navy does not have, I do not have to pass a physical assessment beforehand. Mm-hmm. But, um, there, but most other roles do, the Navy as- Yes ... the, in the Army and the Air Force. Right. Um, I have, uh, I participated in one of those, so I know I would pass it, but I ha- but I do not have to for my- Mm. .. role specifically. Mm-hmm. And then if you are going for an officer role, you have to, um, complete basically a screening where you will sit down in front of a panel of officers and assessors, and they will assess whether or not you are suited for that, for the officer, um, role. It's far more rigorous and I wa- initially I had an officer role on my preferences. Mm-hmm. I was told, "We don't think you're ready for it. We recommend you- Mm ... st- uh, you choose a different role for your primary focus, um, and potentially you can get promoted later." Um- Mm. Mm ... and this f- uh, after you've completed, um, your, those assessments, um, the results for those, uh, so the medical results last two years, and the Defense Force, and the job interview and medical and psychological interview results last one year. Um, so I completed my initial round of all of those in August last year. Mm-hmm. And I, I, in that time period, after you've completed your interviews, you're assigned an enlistment coordinator, 'cause you're- Mm-hmm ... getting to the tail end at that point. And the enlistment coordinator will be assigned based on which branch you are going to enter. So I have a, so my enlistment coordinator is part of the Navy because that's the, uh, branch I'm going into. Mm-hmm. And, uh, they will help you organize, uh, getting your security clearance update. You have to go through the- Right ... Australian Government Security and Vetting Org- Right ... Agency. I think that is NV1 or something like that? Yes. Yeah. Okay. Uh, N- I think I'm NV2 is my security clearance now. Okay. Okay. Um, and so you'll have to go through and get your sec- security clearance updated and then submit that to the Defense Force so they know you've, that you've been properly vetted. Um, and then after that's done, you've got, uh, because I'm completing my course before I enlist, I have to, um, I had to redo my defense and psychological interview because the, uh, results would, do not, uh, last. So you have to redo those, yeah, ev- when the results expire. Um, and then after you've got, they've got all your information, they've got all your results, you can lock in a enlistment date. Um, for me, that's 15th of March next year. Mm-hmm. And they will, um, then send you the official job offer, where you have to- Wow ... uh, go through... There's two forms I had to submit, which were, uh, you have to, a signed job let- uh, or letter of offer. Mm-hmm. Um, you have to s- you have to sign that, and you have to have a witness sign it as well. Mm. Um, if you are enlisting as an underage person, you have to have both your parents sign it. Mm-hmm. Um, since I'm not underage, it was just me and one witness. And then you have to give them, um, like all the necessary details, like your address, your, like your current address, your next of kin, your emergency contacts, your tax file number, your bank account information, all that kind of stuff so they can, you know, pay you and stuff- Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah ... once you actually get in. Um, and yeah- Mm-hmm. So- Cool ... the next stage for me is I've got to prepare for my enlistment in March. Mm-hmm. Um, at which point when, on my, the day of my enlistment, I will be given a final, um, uh, like contract to sign that, that will properly enter me into the Defense Force. All right. Cool. I think, Lachlan, that's, that's a good, good experience, I'd say. Um, a question, actually, I'm asking all these questions to your, letting you to describe whole s- whole story in this session, and eventually it is recorded, which is great for other students too, actually, who are looking for this kind of opportunities, and that's why I, I'm asking you and giving these things. Um, I think sometimes we, we need to really know and share this, our thoughts or our way or our process and our journey to others so that others can benefit out of it. So this is fantastic actually. Um, I'm just wondering, Lachlan, actually, I'm trying to understand the whole thing. So you, if, if I am correct, you are already in the bachelor, I mean bachelor of IT or something, some of your major here at Deakin, right? Yes. How does it work with the, your, your job enrollment? Uh, you're not going to finish your graduation, right? Uh, so, no, thi- this is because of my circumstances. This is my last unit. I've completed every other... So this is- Oh ... this is an, this is what, because of something that happened to me. I completed my... When I graduated in 2020, I took a six-month break, then started a diploma of IT at Deakin College. And then from there I moved into my current bachelor. Um, and then in 2024 as I was getting towards, I was hitting like the la- later half of my bachelor, I ran into an issue with my, um, course where I'd taken too many level one elective, uh, units, and so I had to, uh, talk with Deakin, with Student Central and get like my prior learning and stuff reorganized so that I had enough, 'cause I would have gone over the amount of credits needed. Mm. Um, and so I was supplied with a new, um, unit plan with, uh, all the, and it was like, "These are the units you now have to complete at this, and this is the time we recommend." But the way it was formatted, they had this unit up with all the units I'd already completed, which were- Yes ... all my level one units. Got it. So I didn't see it until, uh, earlier this year. Mm. I completed my last level three unit last trimester. Mm. I got it. I got it. And so I wai- And so it got to the time when I should have received my graduation invitation- Right ... and I didn't get it. And I'm like, "Why?" I get home, check Student Central, and I'm only at 23 out of 24 units. And I'm like, "Oh, that's annoying." So I'm- Mm-hmm. Makes sense ... so yeah, this is my last, this is my last year. Makes sense. Makes sense now. I just ... Yeah, no. That's a funny thing. But they- All right. I got it ... they, yeah, as from what I understand with the, um, and the people I talked with when I went for my, with my defense interview- Yep ... uh, or my initial set of interviews with the Defense Force, uh, back in August last year, most of the, they're pretty long processes. You and everyone I talked to, all of the, um, members of the force who I've been in contact with bec- as, uh, like liaisons, they've told me, "Finish your course first so that you're not, um, you're not like you get partway through, go off, spend for me what would be two to three years, um, as a service member, and then come back and have to pick up my course wherever I left off." They say, "Finish it first and then enlist." Mm. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think, I think that's a good suggestions, and, and that, that purely makes sense. And I think process of defense is of course that the whole process, interviews, and all the stages has to be really, uh, how can I say? Very thorough, and also it has to be really in a, in a way, uh, it's they are recruiting someone for the defense, so defense of Australia, so need to be really, uh, went through the proper way. And, and I think that's a good, good things. I think, I think eventually the pay should be good and everything, all the other facilities should be very good, um, I believe. Um, uh, so, so eventually from your role when you'll be promoted and, and slowly, gradually when you will be, uh, I mean, going up in the ladder, so where, where you will reach or where you see like from today or from now to 10 years' time? How, how it will be? Um- Any, any trajectory was shared with you or do you have any? I've not, I haven't, this isn't something I've discussed with my, uh, enlistment coordinator or any- Yeah ... of my liaisons currently. The reason I initially went into the Defense Force is because I do, uh, I wanna work in IT- Mm ... but the current IT job market is really bad because of the disruption that AI is causing- Mm ... especially at, at the junior level. Yeah, yeah. That's right. You've- I'm sure certain you've heard the stories of companies like freezing their hi- hiring of junior level developers for- Right, right ... and you- Right ... replacing them with AI. Right. So it, it's ma- it's obviously meant that it's incredibly hard for if I was just a new graduate to find- Mm ... a, um, a entry, a job f- for my level within- Mm ... the industry I wanna work in. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. And so the Defense Force is, um, was a role that I had already kind of been eyeing because when I was looking for an internship for- Mm-hmm ... that, that had come up. The Defense Force had an internship program- Mm. Mm-hmm ... that I had applied for. I hadn't gotten in, but- Mm ... I, they put me on like a wait list. Mm-hmm. And so I went, as I was reading through it, I realized, and I saw the job opening. Mm. I realized this is something that gets me job experience. Lots, it looks really g- it can look really good on my resume. Mm-hmm. And it is a stable role I can have for f- in, for this role two years. And if I don't, if I no longer want to work the role, I can leave the Defense Force, go into the reserves, and get a civilian job. Yeah, yeah, yeah. However, if I don't, then I have a guaranteed path of progression. It gives- Correct ... it, so it gives, it, I went into it not, both because it is in an industry that I wanted to work in and because it has a stability the current job market- That's right ... doesn't- Yes ... can't provide me. That's right. That's right. That's right. I think, I think, I think that's a, that's a good perspective and good way to, good way to decide and navigate. But one thing, yeah, I, I just want to maybe this session is actually, uh, there is another, another reason I'm- Probably discussing with you all these sort of things. Today we have, we have only HD, HD task discussion. There is nothing else. And, uh, HD task, actually, I basically I'm not going to code anything. I'll, uh, I'll discuss with you. And I believe those who are actually claiming for HD, I don't need to discuss much with them because they already claimed themself for HD, so they should be able to do better. Uh, but anyway, let's continue because, uh, that is the only opportunity we get to converse, and we got to do some conversations. So actually Lachlan, your, your, your, your... the way you are deciding on from your point is really, really good. But one thing I want to highlight here is all about the AI disruptions. That's absolutely true. There is no doubt about it. AI is de- disrupting all the, all the, um, industries. Um, and a lot of recruitment are freeze at the moment. Also, there are a lot of job cuts we can see. But let me tell you one very important thing. Uh, these jobs will eventually be changed or modified in a way people will be es- using their skills in another way, not just typing or not just coding stuffs. But IT will be there, and AI also will be there. And we m- we also need to know the fundamentals of IT and AI. That's important. And eventually I would -- I see myself, like, in, in next couple of years, um, the, the roles will be changed. Also, the skills will be changed, but it is -- it, it will be needed. And eventually AI will enter to many aspect of our life in daily research, daily activities, and all sorts of things. So IT, we need to know the fundamentals of IT or how underlying things work. Currently at the -- at this point, some people are very much affected are the one who are actually working as a software developers at different companies. The biggest -- the big reason is last twenty, twenty-five years of time, we had a huge influx of developers because companies needed them. So software developers or s- or developers or programmers, we needed a lot to develop those sort of things. Since AI came, AI can, uh, can quickly do this job, that's why we don't need too many of these developers or, or programmers. But, uh, eventually people having those, again, unique skills, they will be remaining, but those who are doing pretty much similar things, they will be replaced by AI. However, there will be n- another way of, another way of using IT will be -- people will explore, and eventually that will go flood all the other areas. This is one of the key thing I would say. That's why when this kind of disruption happens, normally s- little bit, uh, I mean, things get freeze and also some, some s- s- certain group of people are normally affected. Here in this case, I would say the developers are affected. But one -- another thing I would like to highlight here, because many students who are studying IT, they are getting a bit worried, and I, I, I see this question very much. Actually, last, last week or week before, I attended Beyond the Degree panel discussion at Deakin. So Deakin Student Association has invited me to attend and become a panel member of that, um, uh, that Beyond the Degree session. And, and this is one of the things I want to highlight is when -- actually imagine when calculator has been invented. So people can do all the calculations. People can, uh, do all this, um, two plus two is four, two plus five is seven. We do the calculation, but why at a school we still teach kids two plus two? We don't give them calculator to do that job. Eventually, if I give a kid to do and show him, "Okay, this is two, this is plus sign, and this is, uh, five, so find the result," they can immediately do it. And you have done Naplan test, you've done a lot of test. Uh, so we are, we are, we are learning those fundamental at our primary schools, right? And we are not leaving them. So those fundamentals we eventually need to know because whatever AI we call it, even if you want to use it, use those AI in a secure way, in a proper way, in a jus- in a proper judgmental way, like I need to judge what the AI is giving me, I need to understand those fundamentals. This is one of the key part of things. And majority of the, of the AI -- of, of the, um, um, the, the video clips that we see in YouTube or in Facebook or eem- even in different channels, those -- the top-level people when they talk about AI and they said that, "Hey," like, like if you, if you see that talk from Sundar Pichai or if you see some, uh, the, the CTO of Anthropic, if you see they are saying, "Oh, our AI -- our, all our codes are actually written by AI." Last, last few months, ninety percent of the, of the codes are actually, um, ninety percent of our codes are actually, uh, uh, our codes are actually developed by AI. We haven't done anything. Look, let me tell you one thing. When they are saying our codes are developed by AI, but those people who are telling you that story, eventually those -- they learned Developing or they, they learn coding by just pen and paper, by doing the raw coding and fundamentals of coding. So people who are giving those hype or things to the other people, eventually they themselves actually, uh, wrote those code and they understand the code very well. That's why they can say that, "Oh, okay, that code is actually written by AI." But we know when we are saying, "Okay, AI came here, and then we are using AI." But you as a, as a, as a developer or as a programmer or if I want to build something, I need to know some fundamentals. Without those fundamentals, I will not be able to build. Even AI giving me code, I will not be able to actually customize it or do something. Okay? So this is the biggest thing actually people are not... true message is not passing, uh, to the, to the Facebook channels or other places. And, and that's why I, I can see for few years that things will be frozen, some people will be disrupted, but eventually those job will be again created in another form. That's what I can clearly see, uh, from my, uh, point. And also, and that's what I strongly believe. Because if that is the case, there is no point in our primary school or in our high school we are teaching you algebra, we are teaching you fundamentals of mathematics. See, we have already calculator is there. We have everything is there. Yeah? And top universities in the world, you will be surprised to know that top universities in the world, they are even, even taking the test with hard copy, with the pen and paper. I'll give you one example, just to few of you are here, but always we have this question. So I'll give you one example. I had an opportunity like, uh, just couple of weeks back, I had an opportunity take an in- take a jo- take a, a, a test or invisi- invigilator test from Zurich University, Switzerland. So as you know, at Switzerland, the Zurich is the number one university in the, i- in that country. And it is one of the top-ranked university. So one of the student from Australia, he was a student of Zurich, and he had to somehow move to, uh, move back to Australia here. So I, m-, uh... So, so they need to actually conduct the test. So they could actually conduct the test online. There is no, no issues at all. But they have, they have actually arranged the test in a way that I will be the invigilator for that student. I had to book a room. I... They, they send me the question paper just right before the exam, not even few weeks back, just right before the exam. And the job that I had to do is literally print that question paper, give... And that was a bachelor student. He was actually, actually a student of IT. Yeah. I, um, I... He was a student of IT and, and mathematics or something like that. So it's a combination of two. So his degree was something like that. And he was a student of actually Monash University. So the test was happening in a way that I had to print and give the student that question. The clock was ticking, okay, 9:00 to 11:00. This is a two hours time. And I'll be... I, I, I was sitting and the student was giving the test in front of me. I was literally giving him a physical invigilation. And right after the, the, the question was printed and he was actually answering in pen and paper, not in the system in computer. So I had to literally scan that res- response and send back to Zurich. Also, I had to post that, that, uh, response, uh, from Australian post to send back to the professor at, at Zurich University. So that's how those universities are considering. Why they are considering it? The reason behind it, they know that we have to teach our kids fundamentals. Without fundamentals, whatever AI magic we see, that's not gonna work. And eventually, uh, if we want to protect all of us in Australia as a territory or our data, our, uh, our coding or our programming or our software, we have to learn those things. Without that actually, AI not gonna help us. Rather it will create a lot of security threats. So that's my observation. And I would say, uh, that's gonna happen eventually. So, so don't worry too much. Um, even if you are studying IT, if you go underlying principles of IT, that will remain forever. That's the key part of it. And the other thing I want to say here, since you are in artificial intelligence and, uh, and machine or data science and artificial intelligence or artificial intelligence or machine learning, so eventually the fundamentals of these are actually some, some formulations of math you will see, um, or, or visualizations or data cleaning or, or plotting. So they all require actually, uh, a lot of, uh, work, which AI probably can... You can use AI as an aided tool, but actually the fundamentals of those or underlying principles of those we need to know. So again, people who will be focusing on that is extremely important. Like, um, they will, they will, um, they will be there. Yeah. So yeah, I think that's, that's it. Yeah. A bit of, a bit of, uh, off-topic discussions. Yeah. Anyway, um, Catherine, how have you been and how is it going with you? Catherine? Yep. Uh, yeah, not too bad, thank you. Not as exciting as Lachlan's week. Um- It will be coming up for each of us at different weeks. Anyway, go ahead. Uh, I mean, nothing too exciting. Uh, I was trying to smash out some- Assignment stuff over the weekend- Oh, wow ... especially when the weather was pretty bad. Right. I live in Geelong, so weather was pretty bad down here, so trying to get a little bit ahead on that. Better. Better. I think better if you can, uh, when weather is bad, you try to complete all your things. When weather is good, you go outside and rock and roll. That's better for all of us. That's the plan. Yeah, yeah. Sophia Rolling, how have you been? How was your weekend? I've been pretty good, thanks. How are you? I was, I was doing great. It was fantastic- Yeah ... for me. Anything, any exciting news? Anything you are doing? Um, not really. Okay. Just trying to manage and doing, do... catch up with all the assignments, right? Yeah. Okay. Okay. All right. Tonky, how are you doing? How have you been? I know you are working hard for HD, I guess. Am I right? Oh, no, no. I'm, I'm just- ... coming for credit. I'm doing well. How are you? Oh, okay. Good, good. I'm doing great so far. Um, so what... how was your weekend? How was the things? Um, not too bad. Just catching up, doing a lot of assessments and- I know ... just trying to catch up right now. I know. Hopefully I'll, um, I'll finish on time, so that's about it. Right. Right. Right. I think, I think one of the key thing we learn through this process is during this week, we are very much busy with our assignments and deadlines. So this is one of the things we learn in the univ- university. Basically, when you go to industry, even in any, any workplace, even if you do your... if you, if you are your own entrepreneur, if you are becoming a... trying to become an entrepreneur, so eventually you will have things. Sometimes it will be very flexible, and sometimes it will be too tight. So how you manage your time? I always suggest everyone, during this time of the week, we are super busy, so we all need to be, like, careful and manage our time well. That's the only thing we can do. So, and that's how we learn. Paulo, how are you doing, Gabriel? How was your weekend? I have been, been great. Tell us more. Uh, I just spent my whole time for doing assignment. That's it? Yeah, because- No other, yeah ... I'm still adjusting myself with Australian education system because- Ah, okay ... you know, uh, my country, the education is not advanced like Australia, so yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. This is, this is fully understandable. Paulo, y- so you are first trimester or second trimester? Which trimester for you, this one? Uh, now is trimester two, but- Ah, okay ... this is my first year. So this is pretty much first year. This is, this is fully understandable. We, we... that's why sometime I always say when I, uh, when I try to deliver my lecture, I will be eventually delivering lecture for this unit next trimester, T3. So T3 I'll be lecturer for this unit, actually. So what I have seen, I... we always keep in mind that, okay, even I'm not, I'm not local, right? I, I, I just, I just migrated in Australia, so you can see I'm not a native person, so we need to cope up with a lot of things. We need to, first of all, cultural barrier, language barriers, a lot of things we need to adjust, right? Mm-hmm. And I think most of us, even, even many of them migrated from Europe, many of them migrated from South America. I see, um, and this is part of our life, and sometimes Asia and different parts of the world. But adjusting, managing, learning, that's how we are human, actually. We... I- if a robot born in Us- America, if you bring it in Australia, it's same. There is no change. And if you bring that robot to China, that will be remaining same. But as a human, we adapt. We have the great level of adaptability. We can adapt a, a lot, and that's how human actually evolved over time and they... because of their cerebral capabilities. And, and that's how human are so intelligent, so powerful. Um, we can be in the cave, and we are now sending human to space. We are same human, right? So excellent, Paulo. Thank you. Which country you are from, by the way? Is it, is it somewhere in, um, Philippines? No. No, from Timor-Leste. Sorry, can you repeat again? Timor-Leste. Timor-Leste. Where is that? I never heard of it. Uh, it's, it's close to Darwin, actually. Hey, man. Located between Indonesia and Australia, yeah. What, what is that name? Timor-Leste. Ti- Timor-Leste. Yeah. Ah, I think I saw that name, yeah. Timor Les- hold on a second. Awesome. Can you give me a bit of your, your... is it an island? Uh, it, it was part of, um, Indonesia before. Mm-hmm. Uh, in 1975, but we already got independence since that. But, um- So you got, you got i- hold on a second. You got independence from Indonesia? No, no. Um, actually, um, we, we were, were colonized by Portuguese. Um- That's what I can see from your name. I was going to ask you, actually. Yeah. Oh, okay. That's why most of, uh, Timorese name we adopted from, uh, Portuguese name. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah. After that, uh, couple of years, Indonesia invade again. Yeah. Oh, okay. And now we become a country. It's a small country, yeah, actually. Okay. Posted a map in the chat if you want. Yeah. Yeah, I saw that. I saw sometime actually previously, but I forgot completely. Anyway, Paulo, tell me, like, a bit more, like, the, the people, the ethnicity. Is it ethnicity mix of, of Indonesia and Portuguese, or it's actually mostly Indonesian- Ethnicity. People I think it makes a lot Chinese, because I have a Chinese blood as well. Okay. Wow. And, yeah, some of, of them are Portuguese, some of them, uh, Australia, Japan, because, uh- Wow ... yeah, we were inva- invaded by many countries. That must be- And also- ... beautiful country then ... um, I think, uh, previously there is also, um, like, commercial activity as well. That's why, uh, some of, uh, Chinese ethnicity in there. And some of them also, uh, brought by the Portuguese, uh- Okay ... during the colonization. Yeah. For, uh, they, they say it's from Macau, but I'm not sure. Okay, okay. Interesting. Wow. Wow. So the language, what language do you speak? Uh, we have two, uh, official language, uh, Tetum and Portuguese. Really? Yeah. So, I mean, people is- still speak Portuguese over there? Uh, actually at the time, I think, uh, only half of people are able to speak it. Okay. Portuguese. Yeah. So, so now, now you have, you said the two official language. One is the Portuguese, another is the? Uh, Tetum. Uh, it's like our national language. Yeah. Oh, okay. Okay. Wow. Wow. And I believe the, the weather is a bit tropical weather, isn't it? Yeah. Yes. Okay. We, we only have, uh, two season in my country. Uh- What are the two seasons? Dry and wet season. Only that. Really? Yeah. You don't have winter? No. Funny. Oh, my God. Okay. O- okay. Now, when you travel to your, your, your, your city or your country, so you, you can take direct flight to, uh, to your city or to your country? Uh- How does it work? Or you go to Darwin and then- Yeah, to Darwin ... go some other way? To Darwin or Bali. Then, so you go to Bali? Bali- And then- ... and then flight, flight again to my country, Timor. Oh, okay. Or- How long it takes? Is it too much time it takes, or? I think both take the same time- Okay ... because, uh, uh, no. From Bali it's too long because, uh, six hours from here to Bali and then another two hours to my country. But- Oh, okay. But from, I think Darwin it's easier, right? Yeah. Darwin is easier. Okay. That's good. Yeah. From here four hours. Yeah, yeah. And then- From, from here, Darwin itself- ... one and half hour already. Yeah. Exactly. You are inside Australia for four hours. That's funny. Oh, that's good. That's good. Well done. Cool, cool. Mason Desmond Lee, any, any updates from the week? Don't hear anything. Joshua Parker, any updates? Anything? Um- Yep ... not much. Just been doing some more homework and tasks I need to do. Oh, okay. Oh, okay. Just busy with your assignments and things? Yeah. Oh, I can see. Okay. I think Mason has responded. All right, Mason, that's fine. As long as things are going good. Okay. I, I know, like, um, we, we next couple of weeks we are, we are... Sorry, we are doing all these sort of things. Um, like, uh, our pretty much P tasks are up until week eight. So we are in week nine, right? Today? Guys? So we are in week nine, and we have week 10, and we have week 11 we have interview. So if you are looking for, basically, uh, can I ask you how many of you are looking for or any of you are looking for HD here? Catherine, you're looking for HD. That's great. Uh, if you are, uh, the rest if you are not looking for HD, that's fine. Catherine, who is your tutor? Is it me or someone else? Sorry, my tutor or the- Yeah ... the marker on- E- E marker. I mean, like who is giving you task? Oh, Zara. Zara. Zara. Okay. That's, that's interesting. Anyway, I think, uh, I'm not sure. I was a bit confused with the... I think, um, Fatima has advised, like, people who are going for HD, they should, of course they should go for interview in week 11. But if Zara is your, is your, um, I don't know, if, if she's your tutor, ideally she should, she should grade you. That's the ideal thing. That's what, that's what I know. But- I just assumed that you would be doing the interview given it's in the seminar time. I think, I think that's what, that's what later Fatima has informed us that in the seminar time. So- Okay ... basically, basically, anyway, if you, if you come to me, if you come to, if you attend in week, uh, week 12, uh, sorry, week 11 you, you can, you can prepare yourself and, and we can go for interview. That's it. Okay? Yep. Yeah, agreed. The rest, the rest all of you are here, if you are not going for HD you don't need to come for interview. That means actually week 11 you guys not, don't need to come here. That's the, that's the simplest thing I can say. And as I have seen up until now, um, uh, we had actually past task up until week eight, so which we have pretty much covered and, and we have done already completed. So maybe I'm a bit ahead while explaining all the weeks' tasks, but, but eventually they are not that difficult. Anyone have any questions up until week eight? Any questions? Because week nine we have actually HD tasks, so, uh, what I will pretty much do, I will try to basically explain, uh, what this HD is, is looking for and some of the, uh, going through some of the descriptions of it. Meanwhile, if you have any questions you can ask me But before I, I start to describe on, on those HD, do you guys have any questions? Please let me know. You can turn on your mic and let me know, or maybe you can raise your hand, we can discuss on, on any questions if you have. Okay? Otherwise, what I will do... Uh, yes, Catherine, go ahead if you have any question. I'd just be keen to get any of your suggestions about how best to prepare, um, for the interview. Like, in the interview, is the interviewer gonna be like, "Okay, I want you to change this code to XYZ," uh, and you have to do it on the spot or? Um, ideal thing is, look, it's not the things that, uh, the, uh, the main thing for this interview is to, first of all, to give you a bit of, a bit of, uh, exercise kind of to prepare yourself for your code, for your demonstration, for your project. This is one main thing. Actually, that is the main purpose. So that in future if you go to some interviews, uh, or some... You attend anywhere, any presentation, you, you are, uh, you have that, have that practice in your mind, "Okay, there will be questions, and I will be able to answer it, and I'm ready for it." Just to give you that practice, that is one of the key part of this HD. The other thing is just to see how confident you are the code that you have written. So probably, for example, you have... You, I can see you have completely working code. Things are working fine with no errors, no- nothing, uh, at all. Things are going fine, and, uh, we get the output. So probably some, some of the things we will, we will be interested to know, what is your understanding of the code you have written? So can you explain me these things, what you have done? Right? You got my point? Yeah. So- So- ... some of it like that will be what we're doing in the video that- Exactly ... we've attached as well. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Exactly. And this is the, this is the one main thing, like, uh, to ensure that you have done your work. Yeah, you can take help from AI, whatever, but you understand it. Do you understand it? Okay, I have used that. Do you understand it? That's the main thing. Yeah. And why have you done it? Can you- Yeah ... if something else, will it be what? How it would be? So we want to gauge a bit of your understanding. That's the main thing. So as I said always, these days AI is doing and we are doing, sometimes we are copying from AI, and we are saying that we have done it, but how far we are confident that this is the one we are looking for. And if sometimes you might be asked, or I might ask you like, "Hey, can I change this one to..." If we change this to what might happen? You just not... You may try like coding that on the fly, or you might just give it, give us an answer of your understanding. That's fine. Uh, in my case, I always ask my questions like in not such that, okay, I know that coding requires maybe 10 minutes or 20 minutes. I don't ask that kind of questions that he might need to. I normally ask the questions maybe you need 30 second to answer. That's it. 30 second to modify. That kind of questions I do normally ask, mostly in case of logical, logical things, like how logically you are, you, you are dealing these sort of things. Not, not just coding level. Coding you may take time, you can use AI, but the logic things is the main thing, right? You got my point. Yeah. Okay, cool. So you can sort of talk through your log- if you sort of said what would you do in this case- Exactly ... or what if I change this, you could talk through the logic of how you would approach it. Yeah, you can. You- Not necessarily have to code it on the spot. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. That's right. Look, um, I don't know you are, you are aware of this sort of things like, um, um, on the spot coding is, uh, is even, uh, Google or big companies when they, they go for interview, actually they will ask you... Have anyone heard about leet code? Anyone have heard about leet code here? Yes, I've heard about leet code interviews. Oh, okay. I think, I think Lachlan has heard. Okay. So, so this kind of some of the coding you will see is a very, very, m- it's too much basics and very fundamentals. So sometimes they give these kind of codings, uh, or, or questions to the, to the in- to the interviewee, um, and, and, uh, the questions are, are really very simple and basics. And sometime you don't need to write the code. They will say, uh, how we you gonna answer it? You need to tell, okay, I'll first do this, I'll first do that, and next I will do this, and then you need to just pretty much write in the bl- uh, whiteboard with the marker, and you tell us the approach. So they basically want to know, they will, they will basically, they basically want to know what is your approach to deal with this kind of scenario, this kind of problems. That's the, that's the key part of it. And sometimes the question might be completely open question. It's an open question actually. Nobody have solved this till now. That's the open questions. Do you have any thoughts on it? What is your thought? That kind of questions are normally asked. Yeah? So Catherine, I think probably you got the pretty, a bit of idea, right? Yeah, no, that's very helpful. Thank you very much for that. No, no problem at all. No problem at all. Yeah. So even, even sometimes I remember I asked some of my students a question, "Can you, can you try, um, you have created a triangle or something with the stars, and there are four or five colors you have applied. Uh, how about like let's change the code and just only one color. Can I do that?" So maybe very, very basic questions I ask them, but, uh, sometimes that take a bit of time. "Hey, how can I do this, and can I do..." Sometimes they go very straightforward way to answer, "Okay, I will put all four, five colors. I used actually five colors here or four colors." And I will just put all the colors into, uh, blue. Let's say they want only blue stars. Then I probably ask them some question like, "No, without changing this piece of code, can we do this? Can we do change the answer? Can we get that answer?" So this kind of like logically, a bit of logical things that we try to give to just to try how, how you think on the spot, and what is your way of thinking. That's the key part of it, actually. Yeah. I think, I think that should be- Thank you. Yeah. Fantastic question, Catherine. Don't worry. Don't take stress. I'm not here to give stress to the people who came to interview, just to test whether actually you are confident on what you have done. That's very important. Okay? Cool. Anyone have any other questions? If not, I will just go through a bit of on the HD one task that we are trying to do. Um, that's, that's what I will probably... Cool? Okay. So that means I will not run any code. I will just open the, the, the Python files, and I will try to explain that to you guys. So let me share my screen, and then I will go, um, uh, and I will go through the, those sort of things. And in between, if you guys have any questions, please do let me know. So I have downloaded, actually, in week nine, we have workshops. I have downloaded, actually, that workshop folder. Uh, in the workshop folder, basically it is, it is asking us mainly to do some kind of things like, um, again, lecture, if you need to-- need the lecture recap or anythings, and H, high distinction task one. So what exactly-- And the other thing is actually here you can see AI and ethics activity. Basically, you can, you can think about like, um, I, I, I believe Fatima has already explained during the lecture. So when you are trying to use AI and make sure, uh, how far, how far you are using AI and, and how does it, does it impact in the, in the socio-technical concept, how far it is fair. Okay. Fairness, okay, when you are trying to do, uh, use AI, how fair? First of all, any problem at what angle you are checking it. Okay? When you are given HD task, high distinction task, or I mean distinction task or any task, how we are thinking the task. First of all, you think about the problem, how can you break down the problem, and how can we do it step by step. Okay? So when you start to think about the problem and you break down the problem, that is one of the key part you can do. Okay? And even breaking down them is also you can do in a way that is more efficient. So these are the parts are very important, and these are the things actually you should use to beat AI. Later, any specific things that AI does, you can cross-check whether AI is doing in a right way. Okay? You can try your own thoughts and thinking, okay? That is one of the key thing you can try and, and see how, how AI is responding. Or sometimes you can see, uh, if AI is actually explaining how it is solving that particular problem. So, so try to use, use in a, in a, in a very, um, how can I say? Uh, in a watchful way, we need to use AI. Um, otherwise, if you leave everything to AI, pre-pretty much we are, we are not using our cognitive skills or cognitive power. Now, I have downloaded the resource file from OnTrack. OnTrack have HD one resource file. And as u- as usual, you can see some of the, some of the things here. And you have been given a presentation guideline, how you will present. Okay? So make sure when you try to work with HD task, uh, HD and D task is pretty similar actually, but when you are doing HD task, um, I think, I think this is a bit, uh, it should be HD one.ipnb, I believe. Because for this is we are for HD, HD task. So that means ideally in the, in the file that is mentioned here, I would say I have to edit that to, that should be, that should be HD one, right? So this is one of the thing we have to keep in mind. Um, you should use Jupyter Notebook as the basic-- basis for your presentation and explain your code and thought process. As you see, you can see thought process is important. Uh, what are the thought process you have applied here? So this is very important. Okay? Thought process. Uh, thought process is extremely important. How you are thinking is this is the ma-ma-mainly key part of it. Recording must only capture you submitted, as I said, this is a bit of correction, uh, we have to keep in mind, on your screen while presenting. You are not required to show your face, which is good. The presentation must not exceed twelve minutes. I think twelve minutes is too much time. If, if I say it should be three to five minutes should be enough. But make sure penalties will be applied for additional time, so I don't recommend you guys to go over twelve minutes. Even, even listening to someone over twelve minutes is too difficult these days, correct? Even if I am talking to you, if I try to explain you something for twelve minutes, it's hard to concentrate. So better it is be precise. Prede-presentation must be recorded using your own voice with clear audio because I, I noticed some of the student try to use, uh, AI, um, specifically international students have done that I have seen before for other unit. So use your own voice. Um, uh, of course, local will not have that issue, I believe, but sometime international think that, okay, I-- my English is a bit poor. Maybe how about I use AI? Don't use AI. It's fine. We are human. Diversity, diversity of the beauty is the beauty of, of human, actually. Uh, take-- accept it, and that's the-- that's, that's awesome. Uh, recording must be uploaded, so you can use any video repository, which is YouTube. You can, you can follow this. Uh, a simple-- If I make it very simple for you is basically if you do the recording, you can use YouTube channel, and you can-- you should not publish it. You can make it unpublished. You can upload the video, but you can make it unpublished. However, you can share that link to anyone. So, so those persons you share with the link, uh, with those person, if you share the link, they will be able to only see that, uh, recording. Presentation must contain following parts exactly in the same order. So the order is very important here as, as, as written here. Uh, you start with the introduction, tell about, about yourself and student number. Okay? Uh, provide an overview of the data science task you are done. So what are the things? You just give a bit of overview. So keep it in, in one minute time. Don't stress too much. Sometimes some student stress too much with the, with the time framing here. Uh, don't stress too much. If it is one minute, three second, five second, we don't mind. Don't to make it two minutes. That's the main thing. Okay? Or make it in between, like, fifty second to one minute. That's it. All right? And then talk about the data cleaning and preparation. Uh, here, actually, you will be talking for two minutes, yeah? But in practical scenario, actually, in any data science project, the cleaning and preparation actually takes at least seventy to eighty percent of the time